हे इन्द्र ! त्वं धनस्य स्वामी असि
Sins like sleep, laziness, sin god and brahmahatya etc. entered this body. The arrogant gods of old age, destruction of nayan etc., loosening of skin, etc. entered the body. (19)
The first waters created by God wore the semen of God to give birth to Hiranyagarbha. The lake that surrounded the womb of Prajapati, that is, the birth of prajapati, was golden. We worship that Prajapati by Havya. (8)
O fire! For the one who desires to kill us, etc., does not give charity, through both mental and verbal mantras that prevent us from giving, for him, the first mental form of the mantra should be the weight of the heart and the second verbal form of the malady should destroy his own body. 
"How many women are there who become enamored by wealth or praise for the man who gives the pleasures of human life and desires a woman? A well-formed woman with a well-formed body, she chooses a husband from many men to suit her mind." 
O Vayu and Savita Dev! You take away my sin from me. Drive the rowdy demons and the burning krita rakshasi away from here. Create me with energy and strength and save me from sin. (4)
Indra stopped the asuras who had taken Dabhiti out of his city on the way and burned their shining weapons in the agni. After this Indra gave them many cows, horses and chariots. Indra did all this in the drunkenness of the Somras. 
The woman says to her husband, "O husband! I tie you with a cloth containing my mantra. In this way you will only be mine and will not even name other women. (1)
The king, who foremost praises Jupiter well, defeats the strength of all the enemies through his power 
Indra gives money to good people. Vajradhari Indra is powerful and indestructible. (3)
Indra Dev is quick to attack the enemies. It is as strong as a bull. They are roaring. They are annoying for enemies. They are going to defeat the enemies in a moment. Indra Dev is the only hero who conquers the army of hundreds of enemies together. (33)
Those who hold this havya, the adhwaryujano! You get consisted of mon. Those who wish to squeeze the somras go to the waters that wish for somras. O you have beautiful hands! It falls down like a bird of mon red, pour it on the dashapavittra as the waveform. 
They came here under the son of the horse, who is not a god and who had received wealth from Prithushrava, the son of the girl child. 
All the human beings, who are present with the greetings and the earners while praying for the grace of the Divine Fire for the sake of happiness, came to the space between heaven and earth like their parents. 
The agni of seven human beings, dependent in all rivers and three places had caused more enemies to be annihilated for Mandhata. The major agni in the yagnas kill all the enemies. 
Indra, due to his importance, swept the Indus river north and made Usha's car go awry by thunderbolt. Indra defeated the mighty army of enemies by his powerful army. All these things have been done under the intoxication of somras. 
Brahmins were the mouth of virat purush. Kshatriyas were his arms. Vaishya he had thighs. Shudras were his feet. (11)
Hey Ritvijo! Indra praises your praise and sings in accordance with it. Listen to indra singing sam and be rich and have mercy on us. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! As soon as you get the hosts quickly, you kill the enemy with your good protective power in battle. I call you to get food. (3)
Those who give dakshina do not die, but become gods and attain immortality. They do not become poor nor suffer pain or tribulation. The whole world and the heavens give us all that dakshina is. 
The talent that is capable of creating elements like earth, mantra seer and famous sages know. O agni! Make me meritorious through that talent. (4)
Savita Dev first connects mind and intellect. Light awakens in the agni. With that light, the earth completely fills the system. (1)
Persons in the mode of goodness prefer foods that promote the life span, and increase virtue, strength, health, happiness, and satisfaction. Such foods are juicy, succulent, nourishing, and naturally tasteful.
You are sick and lying on the bed because of the sin committed by your father or mother. I tell you with my voice about the removal and release from that disease. (4)
O agni! Please take this yajna lovingly to the agnis that serve the interest of animals, those who love with a broad mind in the world, those who remove diseases, give evil, rain, do favored accomplishment. (50)
The firejwalas are liberating, quick-garamini, dark-headed, quick-doer, differently-colored, moving, quick-quivering, wind-induced, pervasive, contemplative and useful for host. 
The worthy of worship, the rituals of worship, together, squeeze the somras well. Those who want its heavens etc. karma fruits vibrate som in the waters of The Ritwij Sarita.  The Psalms, while speaking sacred hymns, have exaggerated Indra's most beloved tej with streams of intoxicating Somras. 
Just as the charioteer makes a chariot, in the same way, we worship Agni Dev with a stotra made with our sharp intellect for the revered agni. Our best intellect should be Kalyankarini in the abode of agni i.e. yagyashalas. O God of Agni! We should not be defeated by anyone by attaining your brotherhood. (3)
O burn! You are part of Soma, you should wear the semen of water and divine glory in us. Prajapati's glory should be located in us for the welfare of the people. (9)
O Indra! This mon has been squeezed for you. O Indra with tears called Hari! Come quickly to consume it. Drink this beautiful somras well squeezed. O Dhanaswami Indra! Give us money by listening to our supplication. 
The stotra-like vanis drink the delicious honey of the yajna named Vishuwat in such a way that they meet Indra with many powers and please him. O host! After this you will be adorned over your kingdom. (1)
A one-wheeled car can't get anywhere at the right time. He can't get food even in times of war. People who desire cows, horses and food want the friendship of Indra. 
Many flames, lustful and growing agnis occupy the enemy's wealth unhindered. This was said by the gods to the agni. They should give happiness to those who perform yajna and give happiness to those who give havi. 
O teacher! Squeeze the som to Indra you want to drink somras. Both the desire-filled horses have been plowed in the chariot and the vrithrashakta Indra has come. 
O Indra! You are like a friend of us eulogists. You have appeared to us hundreds of times. (3)
O global agni! At that time, out of your fear, the black people had fled, scattering among themselves and giving up food, at which time you were overwhelmed and burned the cities of his enemy for the welfare of King Puru. 
O agni! You should be born in the yagna for the welfare of the host who wishes for the gods, worship the gods who increase the yajna and take our yajna to the gods. 
O o o sun of opulence! Angira etc. Ancient sages, through the hymns of their mantras, etc., continue to live by the rule, increasing you from the havi in the form of their someras etc. O broad sun! These powers of yours are of many types. May you complete us with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and establish us in the good that prevails in the Supreme Personality of Godhead. (14)
O Indra Dev, who performs a hundred sacrifices! In the hole of the chariot, in the hole of the car and in the hole of the gambling, you have purified the young woman three times and made her with bright skin like the sun. (41)
Indra's strength and intellect are incomparable. O Indra! May the somapayi hosts, who increase your great strength and gross virility through their yajnakarma, be uplifted. 
 O agni! We praise you. We call upon you to convey the gods. You sit on the seat of Kush in the yajna. 
O host, somers, squeezers and gods! You will not be destroyed. The host who wants to worship the gods in his favour defeats the one who does not perform the yajna. 
Purifying his body like a man with an ornate body, walking like a moving horse to get wealth, those who speak like a bull from a group of cows, and the word som, going to the pot, sit on the characters called Chamu again and again. 
Let the enemies who make mischief and speak words of malicious condemnation stay away from us. O Brahmaspati! Protect us from them. 
Even in places like path, difficult place and house, sinful enemies cannot affect with the grace of the three gods. (32)
Indra gave a hundred cities made of stones to Divodas who gave the havya. 
Five Somas were made from Brihati. Of these, six to five were built. That is, five elements - earth, water, fast, air and sky - originated from Brahman. If it was born of great britai, how was brihati created? (4)
With the preponderance of vice, O Krishna, the women of the family become immoral; and from the immorality of women, O descendent of Vrishni, unwanted progeny are born.
O Ashchini Kumaro! You saved Krish, Shaunyu, your servants and the widowed bride. You are the one who showers water for your hosts by penetrating the cloud with thundering and moving doors. 
O you see! You had made a cow with a specially cultivated, retired and milkless cow for the sake of hernia. You made the daughter of Purumitra's daughter the wife of the sage Vimad through your servants. 
Indra said, "The path to being born vaginally is traditional and eternal. All devas and human beings have gone out of that path. Those who get growth in the womb, you also get birth by this path. Don't take the other path and don't make your mother suffer." 
O agni that knows all! We have praised you. You have made our havya fruged and given it to your fathers. Eat the given havi with the word 'swadha'. O God of agni! You eat the ravyas edited by our effort. 
 Som are the three places to inhabit space, vegetation and body. They are powerful and food providers. Worshippers praise them with high speech. Like Varuna, the god of water, Soma gives money to the worshippers found in the water. 
Prajapati created the bull from the line verses. He created the cow from jagati verses. He created the Tyavi varna from trishtupanda. Prajapati produced load-bearing animals from Viratu. They produced three-watt animals from heat. He created the Turyabat varna from Anushtup. May God bless you to protect this world. We request Indra Dev to be kind to protect this world. (10)
The sun is the eyes of the world. They are beneficial. They roam everywhere in the world. They appear to us. We see with his grace until a hundred autumns. Let us listen to them with grace for a hundred autumns. Let us speak with his grace for a hundred autumns. Let us be adin (without humility) by his grace for a hundred autumns. May we be happy for more than a hundred years. (24)
Indra Dev is the eldest of the bhuvanas, fierce and hostile. All the gods who protect them in the yajna please them. Indra Dev does good to everyone in the world. (80)
O you, you are a skin! You come to this yagna with pleasure. You are possessed in nutrient form. You protect us well in each yagna. 
From him the day appeared and he appeared from the day. (1)
O desireful Indra! You fulfill the earth with your importance and wish for very new and beloved hymns. O mighty Indra! Reveal the beautiful place of cows to the water-wracking sun. 
Animals are obtained from animals. Havi is obtained from Purodash. Samdheni (special type of mantra) is obtained from the verses. Vashatkaras are obtained from the activities related to yajna. (20)
Our father Angira created a vast praise of truth and with seven verses. Sage Ayasya, who is all-powerful, also made a one-stage hymn praising Indra. 
O God! Your homes have been made accessible happily. All of you who consumed Havi came to the houses. You should get your wealth and nurture us and be located in Aditya, who lives in the whole world and after giving us money, go to your place. (4)
O people of the descendants of the sage Dearmedha! Worship Indra in particular. Worship your son and You Indra in the same way that the hero who destroys the enemy's city is worshipped. 
Whoever curses us for hating us, all gods like Indra etc. should destroy him. The mantras I use protect me from his curse. (4)
Spread the goat made of all your organs in all directions. O goat! You may ascend to heaven with all four legs from this leak and pervade the four directions. (9)
O Ashwinikumaro! You come to hear the call of the hymn with friends, Varuna, Dharma and Maruts. You come with Usha, Surya and Adityas. 
O Indra! You wear flowers and fruit-bearing herbs in the fields through your rainy deeds. You have created many rays of the sun and have become great yourself and have given birth to great beings all around. You are worthy of praise. 
At the farewell of a living man, people cry, take the sacrifice along and think of a long way. They do this beautiful job for their parents. They are the ones who give happiness to the wife, who embraces the woman. (46)
O you who are adorned, the son of Rudra and the great one! You become a person of adornment by drinking intoxicating somras in the yajnashala. 
O holy agni! Your wind-induced bright flames are spread all over the place and eat a lot of wood. The agni flames of the new speed burn the forests with their brightness. 
All beings bow down to the agni located in the form of deity on earth. Those agnis are enriched by this. Just as beings on earth bow down to agni, the same kind of bowing should be for me. (1)
O stunning Mon! Save us from those who want to hurt us, for God's friend like you is never destroyed. 
The constellations of light that shine in the sky with many forms are going to move at a rapid speed every moment. I praise those nakshatras in the form of mantras, because I wish for their obstacle-relieving welfare intellect. (1)
Just as the desireful young man becomes humble to find a young woman who wishes for a man, so the water flows towards The Mon. There is a special introduction to the adhwaryujans and their praises. The two see each other's favors. 
O aschinikumaro! You wish us a happy one. Just as the weavers weave cloth, so do you increase our praises. The host praises you both for coming together. You adorn the grain like the sun and the moon. 
The semen of Vasha Gau i.e. force was divided into four parts. Water, nectar, sacrifice and animals are the fourth part of it. (29)
O dripping Mon! The hymns of Dronakalash, containing the constant streams of you ojasvi, praise you. You enter the Dronakalash to drink indra. 
O agni that is born many times and killed by the ritvijas! You open the doors of the holy place for the host praising through yajnakarma. O burning and glorious agni! Together with the gods, give us more and better wealth than what you give to the host. 
May God Agni make me radiant and May Vishnu establish wisdom well in my mouth. May God make me the master of wealth that gives me happiness. May water sanctify me through its pure means of air. (11)
May water remove our sin from us. Sins are separate from us. (10)
Indra, who made the sun manifest with his power and made the earth food, from the same Indra, we should get the beneficial food of the gods and get the age of a hundred years while being full of heroes. (3)
Annad, who knows this, consumes food with force. (4)
On taking such a birth, O descendant of Kurus, they reawaken the wisdom of their previous lives, and strive even harder toward perfection in Yog.
Fire, air and sun produce water in all three realms. These three are superior and very bright. These three choose the bright usha. Vasishtha's sons know them. 
Vasishthas, who carry the same as horses, pray for food and are desirous of strength, call Indra and Vayu with good praises for the sake of adornment. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O Jataveda Agni Dev! We praise you. You follow us and kill the demons who make a hue and cry with your weapons. You kill the enemy before he attacks him. Feed that killed birds eating raw meat. (7)
The leaders of yajnakarma are admired by humans and scholars to get agni wealth, the son of shakti. Scholars who are satisfied like friends and wish for yajna defeat enemies with their forces like Tejaswi. 
He illuminates the sun with his increased brightness by lying in the Samunat yajna of sage Soma Tritiya. 
O Indra! We are protected by you. Let us destroy our enemies while wearing your fierce force. (19)
No one can hinder the enemy destroyer, the in power, the unarmed by others, the somras the drinker, the undefeated by the enemies in wars, and the leader Indra. 
His sixth life is an animal with a favorite name (8)
O agni! You are inviting gods to us. You plough horses in your chariot. You have been ours forever. You sit in the yagna place. (37)
O Dhanaswami Indra! The mon who increases the force in your body, due to which the force that defeats enemies is produced in the hands of the ancient god, the same mon has been squeezed for you. You come to this Ritwik Brahmin and drink som satiatingly. 
O Indra and Varuna who give the desired fruit! Both of you drink the most sweet and desired fruit-giving somers. We have kept this somlakshan food in the characters like Chamas etc., that is why sit on this misrule and drink someras and be satisfied. (2)
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan in the west direction of our habitat, they do our violence from the west direction. Those enemies should turn away from us and burn. We kill those magicians by returning their witchcraft to them. (3)
O mighty, accepted by the hosts, pure and radiant for the sake of the yagna! You go to Indra's place. 
Just as the horse is ready to walk after the rider sits on his back, usha devi should be presented to bring the money-giver Bhag dev to my yagna. Just as fast-moving horses carry the chariot, usha devi bring Bhag dev to me. (6)
O Sompanakerta Indra! Add your saffroned, young and athletic body horses to the chariot. Then come near to hear our praises. 
O baby in the womb of the tenth month! Just as the air, mind and birds flying in the sky roam in the sky without restriction, so you come out of the womb with a young age. (6)
A kal-like horse with seven rays or ropes, with a thousand eyes, without old age and with excessive semen, pulls the chariot. All the worlds are its chakras i.e. wheels. Learned men ride on that chariot. (1)
The Ritvijas, with the help of ghee, increased the world-looking agni with the help of ghee with the help of ghee along with the gods who meditated and wished for praises. 
O great agni willing to go everywhere! Come to us with a great means of welfare and protection and make us elaborate, free of disturbances, with a good word, good and successful. 
The creatures there greeted the current moon in the directions. Moon was very pleased with this. Just as the creatures greeted the moon, they will do it for me too. (7)
The wise man is going to give the fire to the fire, holding his upward and aloof form of wisdom and circumambulation, and holds the means to give the first sacrifice in the mirror. 
We praise Savita, Dhata, Pusha, Tvashta and Agni with danadi qualities. Let them free us from sin. (3)
Indra is the one who attains heaven and destroys enemies. Indra destroys darkness and gives birth to the days. Indra has won their armies by fighting with the Asuras. Indra has brightened the sun, the swami of the day, in the sky for the greater happiness of the hosts and has received great glory from it. (4)
In this folk, our ancestors went in front of the agni while performing the Angira Yajna. He had found the milch cows in the cave of the mountain, present in the cave of the mountain, located in darkness and stolen by the pangs. 
O Indra! Listen to Our praise and turn the great cloud down and disparage it. O Meghaswamy Indra! Just as the earth suffers due to lack of food in the absence of rain, so also the sky grieves. Just as the earth and the sky were grieved by the fear of the skin, so are the lack of food. O Indra! You take cruel measures in enemy destruction because you are more strong, but do not destroy your hosts. Oh, hero! You are surrounded by twenty-one servants, so the enemies do not attack you. 
O indra with thunder and deeds! In this innovative yagna of yours, I do not speak the hymn of anyone else. I only know your praises. 
The senses naturally experience attachment and aversion to the sense objects, but do not be controlled by them, for they are way-layers and foes.
O air! Ninety-nine horses with the same speed as the mind and walking with each other bring you. O air! You come to drink mon by your blissful chariot. 
The components of day and night are the places of thirty muhurat tej and sit with the brightness of this sun. The speech in the form of the three Vedas also lives in the shelter of the sun. (3)
O Indra Dev! O agni! Please be painless and establish the presiding deity. The presiding deity pervades heaven, earth and space from its surface. (11)
The south-givers are the first to get the milking cow and they get the bride with adornment clothes. Donors get alcohol in the form of drinks and conquer the climbing enemy. 
 O Mon! You are the owner of the forest produce 
O the best knowledge and the agni created for the sake of yajna! The person to whom you want to give money by meeting the son of water, Electricity, is the protector of the gentlemen and wise, destroys the enemies by power and takes away the power of the people. 
O God of death! Save me a agni called Garhapatya from the sin caused by the black bird i.e. the crow that has touched my limb with its mouth. (2)
First of all, worship that man who came out of the yagna. From that, the gods, sages and seekers raised the yajna. (9)
If the maid throws cow dung etc. then the owner of the cow is not able to get rid of that sin and becomes ugly. (9)
O gold-like color, subhaga, sun-like color and a million that destroys people! You are the sister of water and air is your soul. (7)
What has happened and what is going to happen is the supreme man. He is the master of immortality. He is also the master of those who grow from food. (2)
O the path-maker and scholar Indra! Walk ahead of us in both accessible and inaccessible routes. O Indra! Bring us food through your laborless, noble and affordable horses. 
Like the mother of fire, both the woods burn and do the same work and get the fire in the same way as the mother and the baby. The infant form is facing east, tongue-in-cheek, most destructive, quick-to-produce wood. 
The meritorious ritvijs have placed the havyapatra on top of the agni with the wish of yajna. It seems that there is a son in the father's lap or a fat animal is being burnt in the agni. 
O Mon! May the brightness of the world please you. Please you achieve growth. Please come to us for the company of food. (112)
The Guru said to his disciple in this way, "O Devdatta, if you consume brahmaudan in a different way than the steps with which the sages had consumed brahmaudan, then the snake will kill you."  It has not been done from the front and it is not done from the soul. I delivered it where it should have gone. I have consumed savita dev with the help of her pāpadas i.e. claws, this odan is with all the joints with all the organs and the whole body. He who knows how to consume this odan in that manner is the one with all the organs, with all the joints and the whole body. It is located in the best places of heaven etc. (16)
Salutations to the god who makes the body sweat, motivator and tolerates, related to thermal fever. Salutations to the god related to cold fever, which destroys desires. (1)
We remove from you the diseases of your head, that is, headlessness, and ear-care and willing. (1)
Nights and days travel for their best work, just as women with different forms travel. The night is green (black). Moon was the brightest son of the night. The other had the best dominant son Surya. It is seen (called). (5)
Hey Mon! You and Indra follow all the masters and cows. You complete our yajnakarma. 
To protect the righteous, to annihilate the wicked, and to reestablish the principles of dharma I appear on this earth, age after age.
You be as advanced as the sun to protect us. When you rise up high, you will become the ones who give us food, for we call upon you by the ritvijs who bury the yup and complete the yajna. 
The same fortunate radiance has given birth to Indra in the chariot, in its wheels, in the quick movement of the bull capable of conception, in the air, in the rain water and in the force of Varuna. That Tejrupa Devi came to us united by our glory. (3)
O Vasishtha! You are the son of a friend and Varun. O Brahman! You originated from Urvashi's mind. Seeing Urvashi, the semen of the friend and Arun was ejaculated. At that time all the gods had held you in Pushkar while speaking the divine hymn. 
Salutations to the serpents who follow the earth. Salutations to the serpents who emulate space and heaven. (6)
 O Mon! You are holy. Please give us a warm inspiration to worship Indra. We can do work 
 Heaven and earth are full of light. Give basis to all beings. They are huge and wide. They are sweet water and are based on ultimate power. They are indestructible. Their production capacity is superior. 
O Indra! Strengthen our bodies and strengthen our bulls. O indra who gives strength! Force our sons and grandsons to be eternal. 
O Indra! Make a hole in the waterproof place of the Great Cloud and complete this heroic act. 
Inspired by Adhwaryu etc., and the one who produces the dyava-prithvivi, they go to provide food like the som rath. Soma goes to Indra and sharpens his arms and holds all the money in his hand to give us. 
O mon who destroys the drug and the enemies! You give us wisdom. You eliminate the demons who do not desire the gods. 
O God! Goats are your horses. Do not disrespect this benefit of ours, come to us as a giver. We desire food. O enemy! Let's be the present around you while speaking the best hymns. O rainmaker! We never insult you or ever forsake your friendship. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Destroy the power of these ordnanced armies and throw them into the condemnable crematorium. 
O Gods! You don't waste a single moment of life. I should also not waste a single moment of life by your grace. Let me live for a hundred years. (3)
You are the ultimate favored. You sit down. You are established in paradise. You also give us heaven. Don't do violence. Please for the prestige of Prana, Apana, Vyana, Udan for the whole world. May the Sun be pleased to protect our character. You uphold our welfare qualities. You should be pole like Angira Rishi. You should be as distinguished as Angira Rishi. (64)
O agni! You are the best of gods. Their mind is related to you. O you seeable! You are the one who is going to call the gods in this yajna. Oh, yearly! Give us unique power to defeat all enemies. 
The sun's rays awaken all beings. These rays lift the sun so that animals can see Indra in the form of the sun. (13)
Indra is the master of moving beings and human beings, animals etc. There is various wealth in the earth, its king is also Indra. Indra, who gave money to the giver, listened to our praise and sent the money before us. 
O unstroubled bhava and sharva! Say promises of partiality about us and make our force unaltered in battles. I praise Dyava and the earth. Redeem me from sin. (7)
Seven horses plowed in the one wheeled chariot of the Sun pull it. A single horse with seven names pulls the chariot. Firm and ever new are the three navels in that wheel. In him the whole world is situated. 
O stotao! Indra has been called many hymns and many stotas have praised Indra. You should also adorn the same mighty Indra with your praises. (8)
O agni! They hold the force of the world-attraction sage enemy. O glorious agni! In our homes you make rich light. O sinful agni! You shine brightly. 
 O Indra! You kill enemies together. We invite you from eulogies to protect you. 
O Vajradhari Indra! Protect us through your protective means in our transit place and increase us with your glory. (2)
When manav Pururva established contact with them by word and deed, touching the undeadly nymphs in particular, they ran away with the same words as the playing horses and did not appear. 
O agni! Be pleasurable by these revered praises of Mine. Oh, Shur! Accept our food with hymns. O agni, the one who receives it! Accept our mantras. May the mantras meant for the praise of the gods increase you. 
 Someras is powerful, green-colored, great, visible like a friend and illuminated like the sun. 
Hey Mon! When you go to the dashapavitra made of advanced and sheep's hair, three words in the form of Rik, Yaju and Sam come out of the mouth of the host who wishes to perform the yajna at the time of your genesis. 
 O Mon! Your juice is delicious. You flow for Indra, Pusha and Bhag Dev. 
O Indra! Just as you have made a chariot to come to our yagna or a chariot to go to the warrior battle. In the same way you have built rivers as a means of reaching the sea. Just as cows for Manu or for a capable man are a universal giver, so the rivers that flow towards us store water for the same purpose. 
That Prajapati equiped the soul with the best radiance and he created everyone. (2)
Let us follow the earth and the sky, which are without sorrow and protected by food for both the riches of the light day and the night. O earth and sky! Save us from sin. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Listen to the call of the sage Krishna who praises and come to drink the sweet somras. 
 O gods! You are the best welfare doer, our best protector and the resident of the place of yajna. Please protect us from demons 
O host! Today, the rays of the sun rise and save us from sins and violence. May those friends Dev, Varun Dev, Aditi Dev, sea, earth and heaven bless us non-violent hosts. (42)
O wind! You are the jamai of the determined, wonderful Tvashta Dev. We choose your defence tools. (34)
Hey Mon! You give us riches, with a great number of cows, and with horses, and give us strength and food. 
The old rope falling in the agni should weaken the enemy's army. Seeing the smoke of this sacrificial agni, the enemies should be afraid and leave their wealth and run away. (2)
O agni! The animals, etc., who do not give money to you, become extremely inferior to food. You oppose and do violence against the asuras who do anti-Vedas. 
Just as Someras is dear to Indra and Agni in the third sawan, so may Indra and Agni establish radiance in me. (12)
O sun! You meditate with your five rays facing upwards and with one of your rays facing downwards, you meditate on the earth. When you plead for a day devoid of frost, clouds, etc., you heat the earth with your rays. O broad sun! Your own powers are infinite. May you complete us with animals of many forms like cow, horse etc. and establish us in the sudha that is in the supreme vyom. (17)
O agni with the above qualities! Just as we cross the ocean by boat, so remove our enemies from us and destroy our sins. (8)
Indra added horses, the Ashchinikumaras prepared the chariot and Jupiter accepted to give a new chariot to a cow named Vishwarupa. Therefore, brothers named Ribhu, Vibhu and Vaj! You go near the Indradi Devas. O you who are brave deeds! You guys get the yajnabhaga. 
I take out tuberculosis from your roos, that is, above the thighs, knees and feet and from the front part, from the waist, from under the waist and separate it. (21)
The mani-like armor composed by Indra and the agni gods is very powerful. Not all gods penetrate this gem-like armor, that is, follow the one who wears it. May this kind of gem-like armor protect my body from all sides, so that I attain the age of a hundred years and live to old age. (19)
Fascinate the army of violent enemies and make it unable to lift the Jatveda i.e. agni weapon. Agni Dev, who represents the Devas army in the Devasur war, proceed, devouring the organs of the enemies. (1)
O agni! While roaring, cast the eye on this monster that you put on the monster that breaks the gentlemen with nails like hooves. Just as the sages kill demons with their own speed, so you kill the demon who violates the truth through untruth with your swiftness. 
Hota has ignited the flames in the agni. This yajna is being performed for Ashwini Dev, Indra Dev and Saraswati Devi. From this yajna, godhum medicines, honey, milk, som cha ghee are obtained. Please perform yajna for the welfare of all. (29)
Oh my god! Make this man of mine healthy by taking him close to you and getting rid of this disease. (6)
A drop of water fell on me from the dark or from the sky without a huge cloud. O agni! By your grace, I should be united with the sign water of Indra Dev. I should get the best results with the help of the deeds done by the virtuous people through Vedamantras and Yagyas. (1)
 O agni! You are a god and an angel. Please protect those who duly protect you. 
O Ratri and Usha Devi! You are the golden, the best craftsman and the vagina of the heart. We install you here. You travel between friends Dev and Varun Dev. You are the mouth of the yajna. You are going to light the yajna. (6)
May the Taksha deva come before us and be pleased with the stotas and the ritvijas because of the yajna. The revolutionary, the one who fulfills the wishes of the hosts and the great Indra should come in this yagna of ours. 
O holy, Mon! The milk brought from Yulok by the hawk bird Rupini Gayatri and the food-containing milk is your own. Make us happy to have eternal life through Him. 
They are the ones of the agni gods, for whose prosperity the vast earth and sky praise in each yagna. The earth and the sky with a beautiful form, watery and true form are suited to the agni arising out of the form and the truth, just as the yajna is suited to the agni. 
Those who kill the enemy and get food, those who serve the enemy, the defeators Indra and Agni, are the masters of huge wealth and those who defeat the enemies badly with force. 
 O hosts! Indra is radiant in space. They send sweet water to the hosts with their thunderbolt 
O Indra! My men call you. The heroes who wish for your friendship and perform the ritual of havi also perform the rites of Someras. (4)
A person who liberalizes his mind by donating bulls to Brahmins sees the prosperity of cows in his gaushala. (19)
The gods who got the right to divinity like Devadhidev, who wander in front of the Brahmins, without whom the body is not pure at all, they are neither in heaven, nor in the earth, but are present in everyone. (14)
The sages born with the gods are described as six. Rishi and Dev say that these six originated from one. The desired location of this is certain. They sit in many ways. (16)
O Brahmanaspati! You are a diseaser, rich, opulence giver, confirmatory and quick finish. Please come to us. (29)
Apamarg jadi should remove tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy etc. we get as an infectious disease caused by the parents. May it remove the sins committed by our enemies, vampires and poverty. (7)
The person who knows that puri of Brahman, which is covered with nectar i.e. deathlessness, that man, Brahma and mantras give eyesight, life and children. (29)
O Indra! In ancient times, you raised the stothas with the desire to give money to the poet's son Ushana, and killed the asura named Navavasta and brought the son, caught by the enemies, to Ushana 
Before entering the ashram, this bride is worshiping agni. O woman! Now greet Saraswati and your ancestors. (20)
O rudraputras! We pray for your protective power to have a son soon. Just as you came to protect us in the yajnas performed earlier, come close to them to protect the fearful and wise. 
Those who make the agni happy with these perfect offerings, convey these offerings to the gods, no one can defeat the host who performs such sacrifices for the gods. (18)
 O agni! Just as enemies are destroyed by parshu 
The strength of our army is unlimited and we are safely marshalled by Grandsire Bheeshma, while the strength of the Pandava army, carefully marshalled by Bheem, is limited.
We perform the yajna of the Festival of Pournamas, which gives desired results and is rich in food. May the Pournamas Yajna give us money without destruction, without the hindrance of enemies and without decay even if consumed. (2)
O Ashwinikumaro! Come here with your three-sided bond wood, a chariot with a moving and adorned character in all the three realms, and respectfully listen to the praise text being recited by the Kanvaputras for you. 
O sacrificial protectors! Let us hear the good words with our ears. Let us see the welfare scene with our eyes. May we continue to worship and worship you with healthy limbs and healthy body. We get full life by your grace. May God bless us. (21)
 O agni! Just as the charioteer keeps speaking to energize the horses ploughed in the chariot, the host speaks praises for you. Please take away the money from the demons and give it to your worshippers. You are a donor of the best quality. 
O Indra Dev! Which praiser wishes to complete the yajna for you? Which wise sage has the power to praise you? O Dhanswami Indra! When do you come to the call of the somerus squeezer? When do you come when the psalm calls? 
O agni! The monster who brings the flesh of the male to himself. Cut off the head of the one who collects the meat of useful animals like horse etc. or who steals cow's milk. 
O Indra and Agni! You are pure and sacrificial. You understand my praise in wars and yagnakamas. 
Both the wheels of the chariot carrying you are pure. In place of the axis of that chariot, air called Vyan is placed. Surya, who goes to her husband, climbs on this enchanting chariot. (12)
Ninety-nine types of goiter located in the veins of the shoulders pervade the arteries of the shoulders. All of them should be destroyed in such a way that all the defects are destroyed by getting pativrata. (3)
O Shur Indra! We know your friendship and friendship. O thunderbolt Indra! We ask for both of these things of yours. O Lord of the abode and the Indra of Shobhan Hat! Endow us with all the riches containing cows etc. 
O Indra! Couples who wish for food meditate on you on the occasion of Godan and pray to you to give fruits. You know people who go to heaven. The thunderbolt that helps you rain appears in your hand. (2)
I have snatched Subandhu's mind from Yama, the son of Vivasvan, so that he may live, turn away from death and become indestructible. 
O woman! Eliminate the disease or disturbance that is dependent on your path and in your vagina, with the demonic anne hymns. 
When the sanctifying and unsavoury agni burn the vegetation, they enlighten the people far and wide at night. 
 Someras has been made clean like a child. Dear Somers is added to water at a fast pace. It gets into the water at the same speed as a chariot in war. 
O Indra! You alone have spurred the strong demons and you have been placed while destroying sins. By your command, the earth, the sky and the mountains live in motionless. 
 O hosts! Indra is the best rich and the one with true wealth. We praise Indra with the law. You also praise them. 
At the time when Jupiter uses the grains of different forms and when they ascend to space or high places, the bright gods in different directions praise Jupiter with their mouths fulfilling the desire. 
 Soma is holy, completes heaven and earth with his aura. Their rasdhar is going to look very dear. She protects us and gives us splendour. This someras reaches Indra. 
Gomith collects the movement of cows. (13)
Through whom does this man attain the Shrotriya Brahmin? By whom does it find Parmeshti? By whom does this man inspire agni and how is he able to calculate samvatsar? (20)
O Indra and Mon! You kill the demons who do evil deeds by throwing them into the wark desert and shelterless darkness, so that not a single monster can come alive. That famous force of angry yours be able to suppress the demons. 
Vivasvan i.e. Yamraj, the son of the Sun, should share the havi for himself and give us that part containing melody. The sin that has come from the mother to us who commit sins or the father is angry with the crime committed by us, that sin should also be calmed down. (2)
O brave man! Take two stones named Ulukhal and Musal with good deeds in your hand. Famous and worthy of sacrifice have come to your yagna. O host! You wish for the prosperity of yajna karma, prosperity of worldly pleasures and prosperity of the hereafter. I practice these three prosperities through this yajna. (10)
Hey Aditya! Our velocity is not the same as yours. Your velocity can free us from the trap. You make us happy. 
Lomasha says to her husband, "Come close and touch me. Don't underestimate my limbs. I am as full-fledged as the sheep of the country of Gandhar and have a romancing." 
Today I'm in the water. I drank water juice. O agni! You go as watery and make me stunning. 
O glorious agni! In the branches of trees, a poison called bandana of many forms and which inflates the knees and ankles, remove that poison from our people. The snake that comes in secret cannot recognize us by the pug-of-the-clock. 
O Indra! You should disturb the near or distant enemy with your fierce thunderbolt. You give us food-rich intelligence and establish us with food and animals in complete wealth. (7)
O aschinikumaro! Give us the medicine of paradise three times. The medicine produced on earth gives us three times. Give us three doses from the sky. O nourishments of Jupiter! Give us the pleasures related to these three metals - vata, pitta, phlegm. 
O agni! Many of my desires go around. We publish old hymns on the pretext of agnishtoma etc. We will speak the truth when the agni is ignited for the sake of yajna. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
Famous and very sweet praise and stotras are spoken like shatruvijayi, dhanswami, destruction-protecting and annabhilashi rath. 
O goddess of sin! I put havi in your terrible mouth to get rid of the shackles caused by wound diseases and use this medicine-rich water to wash the wound. You are considered to be the earth of the knowledgeless. Knowing your nature, I know all kinds of nirtrati i.e. the cause of all diseases. (1)
O host! Veer is going to ride on a horse. They are much faster. May those heroes be kind to listen to our voice. The heroes who give pleasure to thousands, who fulfill the needs of the bir people, those who are the founders of the heroic yagna, they are brave, rich and glorious. (17)
This group of mantras, as powerful as the chariot horse, is created by aiming at the great, furious and world-wide-able Indra. O Indra! This hymn asks you for money. You give us a bright son like heaven. 
O Lord Maruto! Bring us food that is intoxicating from heaven, admired by many and to feed everyone. 
O Indra! Destroy the demons who come with families, who come alone, who attack like dogs, chakvas, garudas and vultures. Just as the earthen pot is broken with stone, kill the present demons in many shapes. (22)
Destroy the rain trees and demons. The whole world is afraid of their great slaughter. When the rainy rainers destroy the evildoers while roaring, sinless people also run away for fear of them. 
Knowing all the man-friendly works, Indra had rained water with the help of the maruts as a wishful and friendly manner. The maruts who had pierced the mountain with their word had covered the goshala to please Indra. 
We praise indra, in whose hands is the man-benefactory wealth, who sits on a chariot made of gold, whose thick arms contain rays, and whose working horses are attached to the chariot. 
O Maruto! Rivers or mountains are not able to stop you. You must get to where you want to go. To rain, you spread out in the earth and the sky. The chariot of the maruts going towards the water runs behind the back. 
O Indra! Give us the willful, the rich, the rich, the advanced and the ultimate military power. Because of your defenses, let us destroy the brothers and enemies by that military force. 
The welfare giver, the masters of the people, the destroyers, the war-givers, the enemies, the desireists, the drinkers of somras and the abbeys, may Indra come before us. 
 O Indra! You are capable and young. You are going to fulfill your wishes. You are strong. You are not going to bow down to anyone. Where are you? Who is worshiping you wise at this time? 
O stotao! The previous stotas led Indra towards the yajnagriha and called Indra's horses to the yagna. Just as the cows soak with milk, so they satiated Indra with somras. You also praise the power of Indra and his horses. 
O agni! The havi placed on the hard wood that has been given to you well is dearer than what is dear to you. Whatever brightness is illuminated by your flame-like body, give gems for us. 
O woman! The way this huge earth holds the grazing world. In the same way, your womb should also be located to be born at the time of delivery. (4)
O rebellious resolutions! You go into the hearts of enemies. O hearts of enemies! You get confused. Completely destroy the work that is in the hearts of our enemies who are eager to fight. (4)
O men! May the graceful donors satisfy you. Thick water streams should be generated from pythons. Rain on the earth induced by the cloud induced by the wind. (7)
The ancient mantras, including the mantras, verses, yajurveda of rigveda and samaveda, gods located in heaven and heaven - all of them originated from Brahma in the form of yajna. (24)
O agni! Give me a son of the sage with the best power and defeating the enemies, who will be praised and defeat the enemies who come to war. 
This downward-facing, eulogical, forming and light-lit usha that the Sun has produced is seen in ten directions with many places in the middle of the universe, like the Chitakbari cow. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Give us the strangest wealth that you have. Separate Mahishvat from the sage Atri who is dear to you and hold the wealth you have given. 
O yajnakarta! You are inspired by the mantras while wishing for the gods and bring a well-to-do good thing to worship the gods. He is taken to the south side of the aavnable yajna, is rich in food, the front part of it remains in the east direction and he wears a havan for the agni, the same goes away. 
O lord of the adornment substances, the aschinikumaro, worthy of vision and the way to sleep! You drink the sweetest mon by achieving the increase. 
"There's nothing stopping me in the war. If I make a decision in my mind, even the mountains cannot resist it. The deaf too gets scared by my roar. The sun trembles every day with my fear." 
Yama- O Yummy! Angels are constantly moving. Therefore, O one who wishes to destroy my righteous intellect! You should make someone else your husband except me and go quickly and be united like the wheel of the chariot. (9)
Hey Mon! Bring us you wearable clothing. You cleanse and bring us milch sings. You give us the gold and the horses that join the chariot for our sustenance. 
Whoever comes to fight with us with the enemy army, we remove him from his place of residence. Indra should do violence to this enemy through the ability to kill our enemies, so that it does not return. (1)
O very young agni! You be well-ignited. The gods made you an angel to bear their own. The gods and human beings held the most moving, disgusting, and well-called agni like a bright eye. 
The deepest, the holy, the gracious, the indignificant, the friend who does non-violent and equal acts by others, the son of Aditi, Aryama and Varuna, listen to this hymn of mine today, 
O Indra! Bring us the money you have kept in the fortified space, the fixed place and the suspicious place. 
Stunning agnis in view are extremely illuminated. Fires going all over the place shine miserably for shobha. They are immortalized by grains and vegetation. Agni has been given birth by Aditya with shobhan semen. 
Oh, God! You are very rich and we are obedient. We have renounced the deeds related to you, you know it. Let the agni knowing this accomplish all our deeds. The agni enables the gods through the worthy times of yajna. 
O Indra! I put the part of the intoxicating somras first for you. Let the squeezed mon find a place in your heart. Sit on my right side as a friend. After that we will both kill a lot of monsters. 
The great, the sun-like light, the agni-like-tongued and sacrificial-enhancing friend god gives us wide abodes through the kahos who defeat the enemies. 
O fire! Those deserters who are bright and hateless, who know how to rain more water, come with them. 
With the help of the odan with which the gods, the creators of the creatures, had transgressed death, the odan which was achieved by penance and labor and which Hiranyagarbha Prajapati had cooked for Brahman first of all, with the help of the same odan, I should cross death. (2)
Only seven horses in a seven-wheeled chariot pull the Sun. Seven kiran-like sisters walk in front of it and seven cows are sitting in this chariot. 
O Mon! You are the sweetest streams. You please us. You wake us up. Swaha for waking up Som. Swaha from Mon to Som. Please be pleased to expand in this sacrifice space. (2)
Friends and Varuna devas immersed Kamadeva in water with his wife Aadhi i.e. anxiety, because he was suffering in his disconnection. O woman! I am for you torment that Cupid with the power of Varuna, the swami of water. (5)
O Som who desires Indra! You fall before us like a raining cloud like streams of intoxicating nectar. 
O Durva! You grow well everywhere. Like yourself, please increase our children and wealth. (20)
Jupiter, the son of Angira Rishi, who is the minister of the gods, should be powerful by the practice of Veda mantras, other sages have placed the armadha Vajra, which destroys the asuras, in Dyulok i.e. heaven. (10)
The people who praise, the old and the ones who drink the desireful som open the door of the yajna. 
Oh, horse! I have seen your appearance coming around on the earth for the sake of the adoption of food. At the time when men take away your food items, you kindly eat grass, etc. straws. 
O Mon! You are taken in utensils for the welfare of the people. You come here and eat. Hosts provide you with misgovernance to sit. The host performs the udchi (with mantras) sacrifice for you. You are assumed in a vessel for Ashwinikumars. You are taken in a vessel for Saraswati Devi. You are absorbed in a vessel for Indra Dev. You are taken in a vessel to destroy the enemy. (32)
O godly agni! I man may serve to find your happiness forever by means of the defenses near you. 
Indra is powerful. Please be they more powerful. We want to make Indra stronger to destroy enemies. 
O you are brilliant, rich and doomed to work in the yagnas performed by human beings! I praise you for performing yajna. When the praises are fulfilled, motivate our yajna towards the gods and give us the money that the devas have. 
The hero who kills Vrithra by being a bridegroom secures Indra Stota with his protective means. They are going to build the district for Sudas and give money to the host. 
The green and glistening Som goes with his sharp force, laying kush towards the east in the yajnas. 
I call usha and night and diwa-prithivi, varuna, mitra, aryama, indra marudgana, mountain group, jalon, adityas, space and other gods to the yagna. 
 O Mon! In Param Vyom, seven to three times i.e. twenty-one cows give the best milk. The beautiful water of the four other worlds increases soma. Someras flows 
The squeezing Somerus flows aiming at the earthly and the deulok. We perform havan of Som, who roams at this place and at its base east. 
O Gomata! You are kamya in havan. You are like the light of the moon and the sun. You are not famous and slaughterable on earth. You speak in our name to call the gods with a good voice. (43)
 O Usha! You were born with a bright form of the sun and the night is black. Sun is equally brotherly to both, both are immortal. One after the other comes to heaven, both of them end each other's influence. 
Vedavahis call Kanva the son of Nrishad. Kanva, a black-colored and white holder, received money. Agni revealed its appearance for Kanva. No one can perform such a yajna for agni other than Kanva. 
O Indra! Divine Mon make you matwala. Mon squeezed by the earthmen give you intoxication. May the mon by which you build wealth please you. Let him by whom you kill enemies make you happy. 
O very young agni! You ignite well and shine in the yajnashala for our welfare with your moving flame. A lot of food goes to you. 
O agni! Please save us completely from sin. You kill those with bad character. Please establish the true man. We follow your immortality from your excellent age to your best age. (28)
In this yagna called Tritiya-Sawan, the gemstone of the sages should come to me. You guys drank the squeezed mon. You made four parts of a spoon by your skill and desire for karma. 
O Madaswami Mon! Your appearance is bright. Just as one friend tells another friend the true way, so be the one who tells us the way. 
O agni! You have illuminated the earth and the sky with your brightness. You protect by listening to praises. May you ignite near us with great grains and abundant riches. 
Savita Dev, please take care of you. Kings should make you a good child. Jataveda Agni should make a woman of good fortune to live till old age. (49)
O agni! All the gods together made you their messenger. O chief agni among the gods! You soon became worthy of yajna. 
As a swan sits in water, in the same way fire wakes up everyone in the morning and fire gets power from water. Agni increases all medicines like Soma and was sitting in water in a shrinking position Like a baby in the womb, when grains grew so Agnis light spread far and wide. 
O glorious agni! The hosts praise you for the sake of the divine. O fiery agni! You shine rich in havi. You stay in the yajnasthan of my sage. 
We have pleased the deserters with Our praises. Indra is pleased with us. We want to protect the gods. May Indra, Agni, Friends and Varuna give us happiness. Let us enjoy the food they have given us. 
O Indra! When will our praises come to you and climb the chariot? When will you give me the hymns that nourish you thousand people? When will you make my hymns rich? When will you beautify the yajnakarma with food? 
Indra said, "I have seen Krishna Asura roaming in the cave on the banks of the River Anshumati. It is located in the same water as the bright sun. This wish-filled Maruto! I want you for war. You kill him in the war." 
The audravarus milk the increased food and juice from the sun's seven rays through the wind and the dynamic secondary vaku. 
Peepal grows by defeating other trees in the same way that bull defeats other animals with its help. O people! Let us destroy the enemies who wear the gem made of you. (4)
O Sahartu Indra! If you want to make us happy, give us all the good luck. 
Rudra Dev! You are the ruler of ghosts and with a special crest (peak). Make the bows of those who are jatadhari without attachment. You take them away thousands of plans from us. (59)
Just as Indra is successful due to rain between the earth and the sky, just as he is successful due to the growth of water, paddy, barley etc. In the same way, let us become successful among all gods and human beings. (2)
O agni! You come very close to us to protect and for the sake of yajnakarma at the end of Usha. O agni pleased with our promise! You must eliminate the diseases caused by Varuna and eat this soothing havi. O agni called by us! Come to us. 
O agni! At this time, the ancient fathers who get the devpada according to the devagana and karma should not hinder our karma. Do not let the suns that rise between the ancient earth and the sky and indicate the yagna do us violence. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O glorious and waterless agni! We kindle you in all ways. The worthy glory of your praise is illuminated in heaven. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
O Sarsavan God! Protect us from your water body which is juicy and raining. 
 O agni! Your flag is very smokey. You are great and enjoyable. Please give us intellectual splendour. 
Hey Rudra! Do not kill our heroes in anger and violence against our sons, grandsons, helpers, cows and horses. We always call you with a hug. 
Savita dev along with the inner night offer sacrifices to agni. May agni containing these deities be pleased to receive this sacrifice. Along with Savita Dev, Indra-yukta usha devi offers this sacrifice to the Sun. May the Sun please accept this sacrifice. (10)
Pusha Dev is our guide. When desired with a mantra, they destroy the demons and provide enemy-destroying means. May they please use our intellect in the best of work. (42)
O Indra, the abode-giver and the multi-worker! Be your father and mother. We will beg you for happiness. 
Prajapati, Parmeshti, Father, Pitamah shraddha and Vrishti started living with him. (2)
O Ashchini Kumaro! Give this host such wisdom that it may depend on you and you may be the protector of this psalm. (7)
The said transiting animals are meant for Indra Dev and Agni. Black animals are for Barun Dev, chitambare coloured animals are for marudgan and hornless animals are for Prajapati. (15)
"This stota! Don't forget the conversation we have had with you. May you serve us by creating praise in future yagnas. Don't make us as ugly as men. We greet you." 
We serve the agni with the brightest brightness as the individual sage with the most praiseworthy and revered praises. 
This charu containing malpua and meat is located here in this yagna. We perform yajna for Indra etc. gods who create the worlds and paths. Those who consume part of the yajna should be located here. (20)
The person who has cursed us in anger, who has sent the sin of foolishness to us and who embraces my son etc. to take away the blood of the body, etc., he should eat the son of the enemy who curses me. (3)
O God of agni! You tell us more scholars near the gods and bring our worth of wealth to the gods. 
Therefore, always remember me and also do your duty of fighting the war. With mind and intellect surrendered to me, you will definitely attain me; of this, there is no doubt.
O Ashwinikumaro! You bring food carried by many horses. O enemy! Our house is full of lots of cows and gold. 
O enemy-destroying Ashwinikumaro! You come before us with the grain adorned with beautiful horses and drink the sweet mon. Your chariot going towards the destination with the sun causes pain to the parts of heaven with its wheels due to the fast running. 
Today we have won and found things to achieve. We have become sinless today. The sin we have committed in the wake, in sleep, or in the form of a resolve, has come to the close of our malice or to those who hate us. 
O Indra! Let your hundreds and thousands of defenses protect us. Let all your efforts protect us. 
The sage Angira, who performed the yajna in a new style, drank the som and opened the door of the cows stolen by the pangs, by drinking which the Brahmins had found the stolen cows, and with the help of the som with whose help the host found the food related to the welfare nectar water when the yajna started, they say the words to make the Som devs immortal. 
Whoever knows this, Ugradev, who wears a bow, lives in his favor from the corner of the north direction, Sharva, Bhava and Ishan do not harm him. Men and animals who adapt to this, Ugradev does not do violence to them. (10)
That Brahmaudan session is going to carry the most in the yagyas due to the elaborate yagya. The host gets heaven by cooking this wide-bodan with wide components, places the kumud flower produced from the egg-shaped tuber on the heart and places the lotus fibers, the bulb of utpal (lotus) and the mrinali i.e. kamalini produced in water and the hooof-shaped mrinali i.e. Kamalini on the chest. O host! Keep lotus lakes all around you in heaven. May all these streams reach you, refining sweetly in heaven obtained as the fruit of the Brahmaudan session yajna, and the present lake should also be present near you.  (5)
O shvaitapad! Destroy serpents with your front and back feet. Just as falling wood becomes inferior to power, in the same way snake venom becomes ineffective. O darbh! You remove this terrible snake poison. (3)
The women of the enemies come to their senses due to the severe roar of Dudunbi. They are frightened to see the enemies killed in the war and run away holding their son's hand. (5)
The wish-fulfilling Som moves like a chariot and crosses the Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair to give thousands of food to the host and goes to the kalash. 
O Sun God! Grieve with the power to grieve with those who hate us or those we hate. (4)
O Indra! These principal praises have been said for you. O brave Indra! Give food to the best human beings. In those who want you, be the one with shobhan yajna. Protect those who are gathered to your psalm. 
O one who praises! Praise the same Savita Dev who is the first son of Brahman and who appears to rise from the flowing ocean. He is the constant youth, the destroyer of the darkness of the night and the one who utters the words of grace. (2)
May this agni give us selectable wealth. Let these enemies come before us, destroying them. Let it win food for us. Win the force for us. Win it against enemies for us. Please accept our sacrifice. (37)
O air! Come with the employables. This Deeptiman som is for you. You go to the house of the host who squeezes the Somras. 
Give us children and keep us together till we are old. O bride! Enter your husband's house without any evil. You become a welfare factor for our humans and animals. 
Praiseworthy Indra is called to destroy enemies. They listen to praise well and give money for the hosts. Indra, the lord of wealth, gives money well to the host who wishes for praise. 
O paidva! You're the best. We pray to you. You come here. Drive away the serpents from the path we go by. (6)
Air departs away from the forest through tornadoes. O Indra! Talk about the superiority of our cows etc. animals. (6)
Rivers like Ganga, huge mountains like Himalayas and small mountains irrigate the poison-killing nectar in your body. A river named Parushni, full of algae, sprinkled nectar on your body. May this poison-killing nectar be pleasing to you and my heart. (3)
I please both the agni form, the divine and the main. By speaking water-related mantras, the seven ritwijs with food grains please the agni through the havya. The protectors of the yajnakarmas and the radiant ritvaijs say the truth to the agni in every yagna. 
O agni! Let our sins be destroyed. You publish our wealth from all sides. Let our sins be destroyed. 
 Vishnu kept his feet in three ways. The whole world was absorbed in the footsteps of those feet. 
 O Indra! You flow water in the form of a lot of rain, deliver it to this world, then The Pusha Devta is your helper. He is a god capable of nourishing. 
The deserts, who walk as fast as horses, are as bright and have equal brotherhood, fight like mutually loving knights. The leader deserts grow like intelligent humans and cover the sun's brightness by rain. 
Those who are our enemies should run away from us. We bind our enemies through Indra and Agni. The king that Aditya and Rudra have made us is a cautionary one. (10)
The medicines living on peepal and palash trees are requested to please the host to bury the cows with kanti. Please make the host virtuous. (4)
What need is there for all this detailed knowledge, O Arjun? Simply know that by one fraction of my being, I pervade and support this entire creation.
We praise the humans, gods, rural animals and wild animals like lions living on earth. We praise the birds that remain shakun. Let them free us from sin. (8)
O Mon! You're bright. We buy you from shining gold (make your own). You are as pleasing as the moon. You are like nectar. The bodies of whites and shining ascetics should become like the color of Prajapati. We buy you from the ultimate livestock. You are able to nurture thousands. You nurture us too. (26)
The paths of these sons of Aditi are devoid of the movement of others and violenceless. They are path-keepers and comforters. 
Hey Mon! Fall down as winning streams to give us all the money. Drive away all the enemies together. 
Oh, the green-haired sun! The identity of you because of which all beings move especially and rest at night, you rise daily with your identity and we see you. 
Vishnu, whose three stages, complete and without decay from honey, have pleased man through food, he alone possesses all the three metals, the earth, the sky and all the realms. 
The electric woman saw the venous man and smiled and hugged him in space. Wayne slept in the bedroom, fulfilling his desire for a loverlike lightning. 
Mon sifts from dashapavithra made of sheep's hair. Wishful and green coloured mons go to the best place of Indra by doing the word 'Som'. 
May this havi bless our children. Increase the ten organs. For the welfare of all people. You are self-soothing. Children are old. Increase livestock. Be safe. O agni! You increase our people. You take milk and semen for us. (48)
You settle the agni in yourself. Fire itself is light. You ignite in that (heart). You light up the flame and the light. (31)
The ritwijas put the juice dripping, greenish, powerful and intoxicating som in water for Indra. 
O som of many streams, who gives thousands of money to the hosts in the yagna and desires the food of the hosts! You should rain from the sky and meet the water and the god in dronakalash, increasing our life. 
O Savita! You protect our home with your non-violent and soothing speeds. O Hiranyavak! You become the cause of new pleasures and defenses. Let not our master be the one who wants our harm. 
Nurture the wealth containing heroes with a welfare mind. O Ashwini Kumaro! You should remove the evil etc. received on the way by refining this pilgrimage. (6)
May the earth, which gives happiness and peace, gives food and milk, has the same essence as milk, may the earth be on my side. (59)
O poet and the worshiper of agni! Increase our age by protecting us from sinners and violents. 
O Fire and Mon! You are equally wealthy and able to invoke together. You listen to our praise. You are more famous than all the gods. 
O Shataudana Gau! For those who are located in heaven, who are in space and who live on earth, always provide sweet milk, curd and ghee to them. (12)
O God! We want to protect you for the fulfillment of the sacrifices of today and tomorrow. Your protection is sinless and rich. 
Balvan Indra had killed the elusive Vritra who lived in the megh that went around. The earth and sky trembled, afraid of the thunderbolt, while making the words of Indra, who rained water. 
O Indra and Varuna! Just as the bull pleases the cow, so do you please praise. Just as cows eat grass and give milk in the form of thousands of streams, so may the eulogical cow fulfill our desire. 
O agni! Do not burn the body of this phantom over. Do it the way it gets happiness. Let your flames that exploit go into the forest and the radiance that removes the juice remain in the earth. Don't you consume our bodies. (36)
 O hosts! Someras is the elixir and best of paradise. Vajradhari Indra drinks it. So refine it for them. 
You are going to go everywhere. You are going to go to the gods yourself. You are going to reach Prajapati. Agni is a brahmagyan. We pray to you to reach out to the gods. May the gods and prajapatis please provide us with all kinds of wealth. (4)
Who is the nurturer of menopausal nature? (2)
We measure this crematorium with excellent means, so that we do not get another cremation deed in the middle before a hundred years. (43)
 O Indra! You are going to do beautiful work. We call you for our protection in the same way as a cow that gives good milk is called. 
The place of Varuna, whose three white rays dwell in space spans three lands, is the pole. Varuna is the lord of the seven rivers. They kill all the enemies. 
O dream! We know everything you were born for. Just as a horse vibrates its dusty gray limbs and throws away its saddle etc., in the same way I throw you to my enemy and to the one who obstructs the sacrifices of the gods. The fruit of the nightmare that is in our body, in our cows and in our homes, it should reach our enemies and god enemies i.e. those who obstruct the yajna karma. (4)
Those husbands and wives with babies and virgins attain full life by being adorned with gold ornaments. 
O fire! I have given you your beloved greeting. That's why I'm praying a variety of prayers. I am your servant. Just as the servant dwells in the house of the great master, so I dwell in your sacrificial place. 
We give you the west direction, Varuna, Pridaku snake and Varundhari food. Protect this until you depart from here. Get it in the form of luck till old age. May our old age give it death and when we die, we should go to heaven with this ripe odan and get happiness. (57)
O Indra and Soma! Both of you, heated by agni, made of steel, anguish and old, rotate your weapons in space and send the man-eating demons through them to the nearby region, where they will die. (5)
Many of the stotas take full khuch from ghee and praise the agni god in the yajnashala to carry them near the gods. 
O self-facing path of fruit! You take away the destruction of the enemy from me and send it to him. Remove from me the means and acts of violence committed by the enemy against me. (7)
It was this brightly lit up Indra who had illuminated all the realms as the Sun and made the ushas bright by lighting and brightening all the people. Indra, who fulfilled the wishes of the people, walked on a chariot that was drawn from horses that ran according to the praises and received wealth. 
Ready for bathing (udyat) som is Sindhu. Sacrifice them in their name. Offer in his name for the som kept in the sea (pitcher). Offer the som in the water in his name. Offer the two gods (Varuna-Vishnu) who are energetic with their name. Whose might is mighty. This sacrifice is being offered to the gods who have got the first sacrifice in the yajna, who are capable of their ability. (59)
Most of the places that are deserted, are adorned with ornaments, adorned with ornaments, adorned with ornaments and fierce with oozes. 
O agni! Target friends, Varuna and other gods for us. You go to your yajnagriha to complete the yajna with huge and realistic fruits. 
O agni! Unhappy people praise you to get food and wealth. Wake up in war. 
O Rudraputra Maruto! You sit on chariots with famous horses with bunks and adorned with gates. O more powerful Maruto! When you sit on the chariots, the forest, the earth and the mountains tremble because of your fear. 
When the people who wished for the yagna had elevated me sitting on the back of the beautiful space, the minds of those people said from my heart that my friends with children were crying for me. 
Mother Aditi made Indra ultimate powerful by considering Indra, who was born in the dark sutika house, to save Indra from condemnation. Indra stood up holding his brightness and as soon as he was born, he surrounded the earth and sky. 
O Indra! You have killed the asuras and destroyed their strong cities. You are the master of heaven and grow human beings. (3)
O water! I see you coming to my yajna and bringing ghee, milk and honey. Adhwaryu speaks to us with a true heart and you hold for the well-squeezed Mon Indra. 
I give up the water that is disturbing, destroying, migrating, suppressing the mind, causing inflammation, getting from digging and contaminating the body, combining my enemies with it. I won't touch that myself. (3)
O famous Indra! You fill our house with such a plausible property that the cows are in sufficient quantities like the waters of the sea. Oh, Shakr! Let us be powerful at your victory. O Lord Indra! Do what we wish. 
O Indra and Varuna! Inspired by the Saptarishis, purukuts' wife had pleased you with the greetings and hymns. After this, you gave him the enemy and half to the God trisadyu. 
O Indra! All the gods have increased your forces with the desire of somayukta praise. Indra's weapons were killed by thunderbolts. The covering cloud soon served everyone a meal of food. Just as agni eats havya from its flames, so people eat food from their teeth. 
For Indra Dev, the earth is like mother, like good milk cows. Hota performed a holy sacrifice for him great. Hota grew them with her speed. Just as the child becomes firm with the love of the mother, so they are firm with havi. One who offers oblations in a sacrificial agni! You perform yajna for them. (6)
I greet Fever and motivate him to go to the lower place. The fever that strikes like a punch should be retrieved by Mahagraishpa. (4)
He eats in heaven when called. He is called in the world form in heaven. (9)
When Indra and I go to the abode of the Sun, we should drink sweet somersas and gather in twenty-one places of Aditya, everyone's friend. 
Agni, the one who consumes medicines, and Agni, the one who consumes water, know each other. Apart from them, other agnis also know this karma. The penance, gold and other glittering substances of the deities are obtained by the person who performs the rituals. (50)
O Pashupati! Animals like deer, lions, etc. born in the forest and male birds like swans etc. are made for you. Accept them and don't slaughter our animals. Your venerated form is present within the waters, so divine water flows for your bath. Don't touch the water we use. (24)
Let the learned agni separate the virtue and sin of human beings in the same way. Just as the one who rears the horses gives different sorting to the horses with gentle and hard backs. O God of agni! Give us wealth with beautiful children. You give money to the donor and save the money from the unstained. 
Brahmins have described the same form of yajna. All that is achieved in yajna. All this is achieved by the sacrifice of Soma in Sautramani Yajna. (31)
The host performs a yagna with calm wives with a calm mind. This yajna is called Turiya (fourth and best). The speechless blessings of yajna come to fruition according to our desire. (57)
This knowledge is the king of sciences and the most profound of all secrets. It purifies those who hear it. It is directly realizable, in accordance with dharma, easy to practice, and everlasting in effect.
O agni who loves yajna and without death! You are lit on the north altar. Bum serve our yajna well. 
The poisonous water of The Varanavati, where the Varan trees are born, removes the poison of us humans. In that water, the toxic effect of nectar in heaven is present. For this reason, I remove the poison produced from your tuber, root, etc. with that nectar-rich water. (1)
 O Indra! You are as wide as the sea. You are as strong as thousands of sages. You are truthful and powerful. Praises of you are sung under the direction of brahmagyani people. 
Indra, who runs the well-wedded horses in the chariot of the various gamans to go to the havandata host, are able to give upma, come to the yajna, are the leaders of the fruits of the yajna and produce udaka. They remain free from asuras etc. 
O agni! For our lives, provide the nourishing wealth of the rich knowledge, the happy, the body, etc. for the whole life. 
O air! You and Indra have the ability to drink these mons. This way the mon goes to both of you, as the water moves towards the place below. 
O chariot! You are divine, like indra's thunderbolt and like the military power of the maruts. You are the womb of friend Dev and the navel of Varun Dev. May the deities sitting in the chariot be pleased to be satisfied by accepting the havi offered by us. (54)
O teacher! You squeeze the evil-stopper, the juice-dripping, the green-coloured and the radiant Som with the help of stones for Indra's drinking. 
O glorious agni! Interrupt the monsters etc. by yourself or by your men during the day or night. Hey&shanmukh! Burn each monster. 
Spread sin to the undeserved man who wants to kill us wickedly and does two kinds of behaviors behind us. 
The yajna performed by us who wish for victory should be the defeat of the enemies. The means of agni and yajna, who complete the yajnas, defeat the enemies. We perform havan of Havi, who want to win in the battle for the sake of defeating Indra and all the enemy armies, which we want to defeat all the enemy armies. (1)
Hey Varun! Whether it is asuras, gods or human beings, you are the king of all. Give us the power to see for a hundred years. We get the state enjoyed by the ancestors. 
O Shatrattu Ashwinikumar! Come here with the same measures by which you protected Arjuna's sons, Kutsa, Turviti and Dadhiti and secured the sages named Dhvasanti and Purushanti. 
Varuna, who takes the form of the sea, soon reaches heaven like the sun and donates to the people in these directions. Varuna destroys Maya by a bright place and ascends to heaven. May Varuna destroy all the enemies. 
Just as the fire touches the great land repeatedly, making gestures and words all around and with the most thundering, at that time their sparks go all the way, destroying the darkness and filling the dark path with light. 
A person who squeezes somras for this Indra with a desireful mind, with a whole heart and by becoming a godly man, Indra does not destroy his songs. They give praiseworthy and beautiful money for him. 
The best and brightest of the givers, who were filled with great food and strength as soon as Indra was born, used to shake the earth and the sky with their power by holding their desired vajra in both arms. 
Agni is the lord of the giant yagna and the husband of all sanskrit havyas. Vasu serves the yajnakarma of agni. The gods have made agni a human being. 
O Indra! At this time you become our enhancer. When the winged, sharp-pointed and bright arrows fall in the sky, you protect the one who protects us at that time. 
Indra is a doer of many deeds, unique and thunderbolt. Indra, who is always unbeatable by enemies, gives food to The Stota. 
Let us be masters of the grains because of your grace. Don't kill us by taking the side of the enemy. Save us through your various defenses and make us happy forever. 
The sinful person who eats the food of the sinful Brahmin as delicious, that sinful person swallows hundreds of plagues. (7)
Give it momentum towards opulence. (12)
O Aryama Dev! The rituals that other pativrata women had done to get peace as a way to get husbands, this girl who desires her husband has done and is sad due to not getting her husband. Other women are taking measures for the peace of this husband. (2)
We ask indra, ashwinikumaras, friends and varunas, protectors of the devotees, to protect ourselves in a strong and cold-fitting house. 
 O Indra! You appear to destroy the enemy. Because of you, heaven got stability and earth got firmness. 
The publisher of the yajna drips the sweet juices beloved of the Som Devas. The parents of the gods, the creators of all and those with more wealth give the delightful wealth of Som Dyava-Prithivi to the stoyas. The most intoxicating Som indra is the enhancer and juicy. 
Which roams in the veins and thighs called Gavinica, we remove that tuberculosis disease from your intimate organs. (7)
O Mon containing enough item! You go to Devyagna with the streams flowing on the dashapavitra made of high and sheep's hair. O mon with many streams and adornment! You go undefeated and go for food gain in a war that is tolerable by men. 
For the sake of charity, let savita dev spread out, huge and gold arms be spread in the space. We are praising the same glory of Savita today. The sun also give Savita the desire to do karma. 
May water become our good friend. May medicines become our good friends. Be painful for those who hate us, those whom we hate, for those evil amitros. (12)
O glorious agni! May the food that fulfills great desires and holds wealth protect your entire strength. Just as the thief protects money by hiding in the cave, so please Atri Muni by publishing the way to get great wealth. 
O Indra! These best-giving hymns praise you with praises and squeeze the anarrupi som to make you drink. Indra had defeated the elusive Vrithra demon, who had obstructed the gods by his powers and stopped the water body. 
O agni! The wise sages who squeeze the somras call you near the grain for the host. You are great and brilliant. 
O agni! You are singing glorified hymns. Please listen to them. You are a thinker. We choose you like the sun. You are as strong as Indra Dev and as strong as Air. We fill you with rich offerings. (13)
Keep it in the chamas for the world god and sacrifice it. Sacrifice in his name for the elusive asura. Sacrifice for Rudra in his name. When surrounded, sacrifice in the name of Vata Dev. Sacrifice in his name for the nourishment. Offer it in his name for the remaining som from the food. (58)
O North Vedika! You are a peacemaker like a lioness. You are also going to be imagined for the gods. Please be pure for the gods. You are an enemy like a lioness. Please be pure for the gods. (10)
The night of Amavasya came to give us money. He came giving us food juice, nutrition and money. (3)
 O sakhao! Come quickly. Let us praise Indra. They are the best and can defeat enemies alone. 
The fruits that Indra Dev, who was the most opulence, gave for us and the fruits that the gods named Agni, Vishwe Dev, Marudgan and Swaka gave us. Savita, the inspiration of all, and Prajapati, who had the name Yatharth, allowed the fruit. May we get that fruit. (1)
I have attacked the habitat of these vampires from all sides in such a way that the fast running horse goes towards its horse. O vampires! I have won all the boom in battle. Because of this, you all run away destitute. (6)
The fruits bear the fruits flow like the rain of the sky through the paths of the Som Yajna. Mons with thousand streams sit near us or near Dulok. 
The world, swallowed by darkness and hidden in darkness, appears when agni is created. By the friendly work of that ane, the gods are presented to the earth, heaven, water and herbs. 
O Indra Dev with supreme opulence! Destroy the enemies who fought us for our victory. Defeat those who are enemies who try to fight. Take away our fields, money, etc. and bring the enemy who harms us into the darkness of degradation. (2)
Oh, very young fire! You extend their delightful greetings to the gods for the welfare of the hosts who praise and squeeze the mons. O son of strength, wealth, nityatrun and havyabhyakta agni! We install you quickly when speaking the host hymn. 
O Indra! You are going to give money to the world. Even in the wars that take place you are famous as Dhanad. O Indra called by many! Everyone asks you for money for the sake of protection. 
O Indra! You sit on the chariot to drink somers and walk. The same Som with which you are pleased, the same Som has been prepared by Shariat Rajarshi. Just as you drink the squeezed somras in other yagnas, so also wish for the som of this shariaat. By doing so, you will gain steady glory in heaven. 
Fire was first born in heaven! Again he was born in man's world near us. They were born as megh! For the third time, he was born in continuous flowing waters. They are constantly watching. (18)
The meritorious Brahmins inspire Som to be bhaga and vayu dev. Som constantly grow old and give us the wealth of gods. 
This ahuti anna form is dedicated to chaitra month. This sacrifice is dedicated to the delivery form Vaishakh, Mas. This sacrifice is for the enjoyable Jyeshtha month in water sports etc. This Ahuti Kratu form is for the month of Ashadha. This ahuti is for the month of Shravan, the vasu form prohibiting travel in Chaturmas. This sacrifice is for Bhadra month. This sacrifice is for the enchanting Ashwin month. This sacrifice is for Kartik month. This ahuti is for the month of Margashirsha, the form of Vishnu. This sacrifice is for Paush month. This sacrifice is for Magh month. This sacrifice is for the month of Phalgun. O Prajapati! You are as friendly as our friend. You are the maker of yajna etc. We lovingly salute you for the growth of energy and people. (28)
 O Indra! You are the master of the house. The pillars of our house and the body of those who perform Som Yagya should be strong. Indra, who destroys many cities of demons who drink Soma, is a friend of us sages. 
There was a yajnakushala and agragami king named Turvash. Even though the fish in the water were as controlled as the fish, the Bhriguvanshis and the warriors put Sudas and Turvash face to face. Indra saved his friend Sudas from the two and killed Turvash. 
Hold the light for us. Establish light among Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Establish light in Vaishyas, Shudras. Hold the light for me. Please make me an astrologer. (48)
 O Mon! You are a benefactor, food and a satiator to the world. You are going to sanctify water in all ways. Soma grows more in the water of space. Som is the almighty. They climb on chariots capable of going all sides of the sun. 
This is the most successful stota! You praise agni in words with your good intellect. Fire is sorrowless, strange, praiseworthy and the best. 
O Shur Indra! All these things are for you. I speak for you this progressive hymn. You deserve to be called by humans in many ways. 
Indra eats more of the food that the host gives in the desire to get the best wealth and his devotees defeat the enemies of the host. They praise the host's yajnakarma in a war of various words and accept the vow to give true fruit. 
O leader, Adityas! In the yajna by which you come in the simple way, you get the consumption of somras. 
God pragya, keturup, mountain-possessor, the brighter, the happier and the king of the earth- the sky pleases agni. I sing through hymns of praise to the ancient and great works of agni that destroy enemy cities. 
O God of Indra! The light of sun, agni, moon, heaven etc. should be completely under the possession of this man who wants rural pleasures. Because of this, the enemies should remain in our possession. May you bring us to heaven devoid of all kinds of suffering. (2)
 O agni! You protect us. Prove this work that gives heaven 
In all ways, violent physical disease, especially violent toxic disease, balas disease that destroys force, prajum disease prevalent in all organs, tuberculosis disease and world body disease should be unable to cause warlike pain. (10)
Indra Dev drinks Somras repeatedly. Somras is nutritious and enjoyable. Indra Dev resides on the seat of self-knowing, jyestha, kush. They exploit money for hosts and increase wealth for hosts. They are virile protectors. For them, Somras has been taken in the kalash. The book is her original vagina. May they distance us from the wicked and bless us with the seat set for them. (12)
I remove the agni with my mantra form Vajra. I rule that agni through the agni. It is part of the ancestors, located in their world. (9)
Indra had killed and cast down on earth people who were violent with the mighty Sudas, did not believe in Indra, were the guardians and enthusiasts of Havya. Indra ended the anger of the anger. Sudas' enemy went on the path of escape. 
O indra, who has beautiful noses and chins and is revered by all hosts! You are pleased with the joy-enhancing praises and come to this yagna called Sawan. 
When will Indra, the guardian of the psalms and the giver of gorup money, hear the praise of his devotee Angira? When they see the ritvijas of the houseowner host in front of them, then they become yagyapatras and come to the yagna themselves. 
Oh, God! Through the same havi through which Indra has become successful and good for the yagnakarmas, I have performed yajna through the same havan. I have been made hostile by that. 
O deserters! Drink with somras season given by a ritwik named Potra. You are sociable. You sanctify my yajna. 
 O Indra! As you wish to worship in the morning, you wish to drink Someras in the morning. It is refined and mixed with cow's milk. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Your learned stothas make your enemies tremble out of fear and over and over again and again. You come to us and give us many forms of food and near to protect us. 
O agni! We will cross the difficult places for you as a philosopher on all days and with good deeds and on all days. 
Being purified inspires the hymns generated by the mind like a river with waves. Som, who showers water and knows cows, resorts to an unavoidable force by the weak, in view of the hidden objects. 
O revolutionary and body-saving fire! Take our honeyed yajna close to the gods for consumption. 
Indra's thunderbolt is firmly held in his hand and there is more power in his arms. While walking for war, Indra has caps etc. on his head and people come close to listen to his order. 
Lord and the important Jupiter cut off the head of the great and glorious cloud.  They killed the water-stopping monster and flowed seven rivers. Give it - earth! You protect us together with the gods. 
O poisoned herb! Those who dig you should become powerless and you should also become ineffective with the effect of my mantra. The mountains where toxic tubers are produced should also become powerless. (8)
The members of Yamraj, who appear in the sky of the south direction, should punish the wicked and be able to follow the righteous. The sixteen sins of vapi, koop, sarovar etc. mentioned in the yajna etc. and memories mentioned in the shrutis, are separated from the virtue by the members of Yamraj. May this white-footed sheep, given as a sacrifice in the yajna, free us from that sin. May this sheep be agni for Yamraj's corporators. (1)
Hey Mon! Come running and sit in the dronakalash. You, being sanctified by the ritvijs, give food to the host. To be taken to the Adhwaryujan Yajna, the som is cleaned by water in such a way as a powerful horse is bathed. 
O Ashwinikumaro! We don't know where and when you will hear our call today. Your defenses stay with us. 
O earth! When your clouds rain shining water, you hold the vegetation by your power. 
 O Mon! You are powerful. You filter in stream form. You come to Dronakalsh. Give pleasure to Indra, the friend of the Maruts who hold the world with your strength. 
O observation! Worship the mighty and wise Indra. They hear the praises of all, so praise them. The Indras who beautify the earth and the sky with their hostile force are able to rain and fulfill our desires through rain. 
O Maruto! You provide us with horse-fitting property. The Stotajans praise you for getting and protecting wealth. The son of Ushij is happy to have a fast-moving horse. Let the horses you give us be different. 
The moon with beautiful rays keeps running while living inside the waters. O earth! Your position is not able to be achieved by lightning with bright border areas of gold. You both know this praise of mine. (89)
O agni! The hosts did not know anyone else as a pioneer without The Scientist. The hosts have known you as immortal. Humans increase the world to conquer various fields (60)
The king who attains opulence through abhishek delivers food items to rich districts. Thus he became the master of creatures. Yamraj, the god of death, performs the king's Rajasuya Yagya only to punish the wicked and follow the gentlemen. That king should accept this kingdom and the deeds of evil exile and gentlemanly observance. (1)
Those who are extremely fast in the dynamic, the best performers in the intended givers, the most benevolent among the friends, the most worshipful among the archenias and the most praiseworthy among the praises, may they be our protectors with the help of the Indra Maruts. 
Everyone started trembling from the womb that was born lifeless. He said, "O Vasha! Give birth to a child. The Brahmins considered him as vasha's brother. (23)
Indra's horses are bringing him to our yajna to get the power generated from Someras. Soma, squeezed in the three savanas, holds Indra. (1)
O you friends! Praise the mon who is purified for the intoxication of the gods. Just as you decorate the child with ornaments, beautify Som with yajnasadhyas and hymns. 
The Sun God heats his body by shining his rays. They are beautiful, light, glorious and strengthen food. (33)
Hey Mon! You are well known by our wisdom. You take us by the simple route. O Mon who elixirs the world! According to your instructions, our fathers received wealth among the gods. 
O Indra and Varuna! The ages of enemies are surrounding me and the enemies are hindering me trapped among the violent. You are the masters of both kinds of property, so protect us on the day of war. 
Nectar and herbs are present within the water, O Ritwizzo! Enthusiastically admire that water. 
Knowing Usha, the bright agni who awoke on the path of the revolutionaries, the same brilliant agni, ignited by those who want the gods, opens the door to ignorance. 
Those who are great criminals do not believe in indra's power. Indra hypnotizes them. Those who do not expect Indra in their deeds, Indra is against them. Those who are violent with asuras like Vritra etc. are inter. (10)
O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! Walk well in front of all of you. Don't you be wishless towards us. O lord of the diverse wealth! You accept our service. O Indra! There is no one better than you. You make the wifeless wives. 
O soul! You should not turn away from me or leave me and go elsewhere. Just as water wears wadvagni, so we wear you in our body. (26)
O Ritvijo! Perform havan in the agni with ghee to this havi, which destroys demons. O agni! Consume these demons who create nuisance and do not make our homes angry. (1)
O Indra! Give these husband and wife such love, like chakvi and chakve. Keep them with beautiful houses and children. Both of them continue to enjoy the pleasures of life. (64)
O glorious Maruto! Stay away from us your shining and violent weapons. The stone-like armament thrown by you stayed away from us. 
May the three cities of these gods protect you from all sides. While holding them, you become more brilliant than your enemies. (10)
Indra becomes the representative of the gods and takes the form of different gods. One of their forms is for the vision of other gods. Indra comes before the hosts by creating many forms by Maya. A thousand horses are added to Indra's chariot. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The wheels of the chariot on which you ride towards the yajna for the sake of attaining havan in the yajna move smoothly. May you receive our praise that is good to your body and you should meet Usha, the daughter of the sky. 
Like a very young guest, people worship him like a continuous horse, lighting the revered agni day and night in the yajnashala. The crest of the summoned and desireful agni is bright. 
O agni! Just as you gave more money to Divodas, who squeezed the Somras, give more money to me, so give it to me, who gives the haavya. 
O Swami of food Indra! Don't be as lazy as Brahma. You attain immense pleasure through the prepared somersa that gives you wisdom. (3)
Usha does not hinder the fasts related to God and disassociates the human beings. It is equivalent to the ushas that have taken place in the past and always come. It is giving special light by becoming the first among the future usha. 
O agni! Your body is as bright as iron and silver. Your body is golden like gold. Your words are furious. You are a devotee of a cave and a remote place. You are the destroyer and glorious of the harsh voices of demons. You are a cave. Let's offer sacrifices for you. (8)
O sage of Trita! You, being purified by dashapavittra, swear to Som, pleased with yajnavidhata and praises, in the same way as the servant asks for his salary. 
I donate a havan to Indra like food and utter hymns of praise capable of defeating the enemy. Other eulogies also praise the ancient lord Indra with the help of conscience, wisdom and knowledge. 
O agni! Destroy the vampire who eats, drinks blood and hurts the mind. Indra, the swami of Ashcha, should kill him with his thunderbolt and Soma cut his head. (10)
O Indra! Your hair is green. Where there is soma form, you are present. You have been wishing for havi by listening to praises and are still doing it. You come to the yagna with tears named After Your Hari. O Indra! These soma, food and ukth are for you only. (5)
Prana and Apana pradhan are special instincts of prana. Prana is called wheat, barley and apana bulls. Prana vayu is dependent on barley and apana vayu is called wheat. (13)
Kirti and Yash are going to walk ahead of him who knows this. Kirti comes to him and Yash comes near him. (28)
You are the creator of the world. You increased Indra Dev from the hives. You made Indra Dev a period. Indra greets Dev with his heart. We greet them by moistening them. Indra Dev is unique, fierce and all-powerful. (24)
O you of the best wealth, the great protector of us and the agni delighted by the good! May you please us by your protection, destroy the mighty sin, and destroy the great and growing obstacle. 
O Lord of Power and The Giver of Dwelling Fire! Protect us by being happy with the first, second, third and fourth richa. 
The name of its seventh life is infinite. It is subjects. (9)
Both diseases called Durnam and Sunam want to be transmitted simultaneously. I destroy durnam, one of them, who is opposed to beauty. You are going to want a woman. (4)
Will Indra join our early yajnas? O Indra! Come upon being called by us to the heavenly provider yagnas to give the havi and accept the havi. O vajradhari! Come as our willful to the destruction of violent enemies and listen to me the best hymns of the bright, new and extraordinary praise. 
O expert visionary Mon! You pour down your juice to please Indra and give us the food that is capable of producing offspring. 
O death! You go on a different path from Devayan. You are full of vision and source powers. So listen that many of our brave sons will continue to grow. (21)
Core Indra Dev, Foot Aditi Dev, Hansli Aditi Dev, Medhagra Aditi Dev, Hriday Pradesh and Nadi Pradesh are related to Antariksh Dev, Pet Akash Dev and Lung Chakravak. Both are related to Renal (Gurde) Parvat Dev, Klom Valmiki Dev, Klomadi Gulma, Rakta Shirain River, Kankh Hadya, Pet Samudra B Bhasma Vaishvanar. (8)
O heaven and earth! You give us more force. O heaven and earth! Give us a big house for our best happiness. Try to make an effort that will make us have huge wealth. O permanent earth class! Give us a house to make us sinless. 
Oh, King! When yash was discussed, people used to give an illustration of your father. His words seemed to me so interesting, just as the field given to the servants in reward seems to be. 
Those who are worthy of being called by the knights and cowards, those who are defeated in battle and the victorious, whom both the losers and the victorious ones are called by them, and all the beings who are ahead of them in their respective bodies, we call the same Indra with the Maruts to make our friend. 
May the deserts be pleased with our yajnakarma. The deserts are condemned, cleansed and sanctifying others. O Yagyapatra Maruto! Protect us especially because of our praises and raise us up to be strengthened by food. 
Hey Rudra! You reveal the night and the day. O you absolutely capable Maruto! You expand the space and other realms. O you who tremble, Marutto! Just as the sea moves the boat, so do you make the clouds fickle and destroy the shanrunagars. O Maruto! Don't do our violence. 
A special medicine named Shatawar i.e. herbs should destroy Tuberculosis i.e. TB disease with its glory. May this gem also destroy the demons. The shatawar gem, which destroys the defects of the skin, should sit on the man's arm with its radiance. (1)
To keep this powerful and fickle under control, the bond of the neck should be dedicated to the gods. To keep this powerful under control, the waist and head bonds should be dedicated to the gods. To keep this powerful and grass, grass, straw etc. deities under control, the bond of the neck should be dedicated to the gods. (31)
The unfavorable wordless Indra had defeated the demons of Vritra etc. eight to ten times with the thunderbolt formed by the bones of sage Dadhichi. 
O agni! You wear milk on earth. You live in medicines on earth. You should wear divine juice in heaven. You wear divine juice in space. By your grace, may all directions, directions become payaswini (milk-giving) for us. (36)
O Indra! Unite this king with the people, with horses and cows, separate the enemy he has from the people etc. This king should be present on the head of other Kshatriyas, that is, become the best Kshatriya. Subdue all the enemies of this to you. (2)
We will stop the enemy from being punched by the warriors collected from that wealth. We will drive away the enemies with the help of horses, being protected by you. 
Twenty district rulers, including sixty thousand ninety-nine assistants, had come to war with the helpless king named Sushravya. O famous Indra! You defeated many of them by the inviolable cycle by the enemies. 
Please vayu dev and savita dev to make this place holy. May the Sun God be pleased to make this place dominated. Tied cows and bulls should be opened. (3)
The Maharishi, who knows the law, who has tied this gem, should calm the planetary disorder. He is the best among physicians. May those physicians with pure knowledge create medicines for you. (5)
Usha brings out strange rays of nourishment, bringing in the wealth of choice and making all human beings conscious. This usha grows with its brightness as the height of the predecessor usha and the beginning of the upcoming special lighted usha. 
I'm asking all this because Immature-minded people don't know from the mind. These suspicious things are also esoteric to the gods. What are the seven threads that the meritorious have mentioned to wrap a one-year-old calf? 
O agni! You remove the agni from us and bear the material of worshiping God. (42)
I destroy tuberculosis from your bones, with your veins, in the shoulders and arms. (18)
Ritvijo! Get up, that is, don't sit on your chairs. Look at the part of havi cooked to give to Indra in spring etc. If he is drunk, then make him a havan in the agni for Indra. If it is not cooked, cook it. (1)
O lord of horses and the most radiant Som! Be the benefactors of the ritvis and be the ones of the light for us. 
Speaking the same hymn as The Sage Ushna, the sage named Vrishagana, Indra, tells the birth of the gods. Many workers, full of holy brightness, those who destroy sins and those with a good day go into the characters, doing the word som. 
O agni! You get excited. You also wake up the hosts. You fulfill the wishes of your loved ones. All the gods and hosts should be pleased to install it in the north direction. (54)
Celibacy is the part of the deity. He roams among the people, delighting in celibacy. Just as the devas have attained the chamas of Soma, Jupiter found his wife through celibacy. (5)
The arrival of the maruts makes the earth fertile. Just as the husband conceives in the wife, so the deserts keep their conception in the earth. Rudraputra produces rainy sweat by adding the maruthi-walking horses to the yoke of their chariots. 
The owner of the goat and goat capable of producing offspring, Pusha weaves and purifies a garment called Dashapavitra of sheep's hair. 
Mons mixed with cow's milk drip. Mon sifts with milk to mix himself. Just as water goes into the ocean, so the juice of Soma goes to Dronakalash. The intoxicating mon is squeezed to intoxication. 
Indra Dev wants power. They are the best speeches. They are scholars. We praise him like Angira Rishi. We praise them with good praises. Renowned for the leadership of human beings, they worship them with the mantras of rigveda. (16)
Hey Mon! Give the host who donates to us quietly, give various kinds of money to the wishing host. 
 O Indra! You come to give me money. Show the way to us with good conduct and give money. We are keen on cows. Give us godhon. We are willing to have horses. Give us horse money. 
O agni! Call today the people of maruts with shining fillers and skilled in defeating the enemies. Today we call upon the Maruts to appear before us from the glorious heaven. 
After listening to the praises by the stotas, indra wants to bear money etc. for the stomatas who have been made sharp like a thunderbolt, strong undefeated, radiant and do not be suppressed by enemies in war. 
O Savita! Your path in the sky is fixed, dust free and well made. Come and protect us today by the same path. O, God! Take our words to the gods. 
We ask the praiseor Indra for thousands of learned high-speed horses and hundreds of somras kalash. 
O God! Give us the money that is adopted. Hey Varun! We have money worth praising by everyone. We ask you for money. 
 O worshiper! I greet Agni, the messenger of the gods who give strength from food 
O burn! You are indra's oz, strength and semen. You are the power that makes Indra new and you are the opulence of Indra. I make you capable of conquering you with Brahma Yogas. (1)
Who knows the navel of this world? Who knows paradise? Who knows space? Who knows the origin of the sun? Who knows the origin of the moon? (59)
You, who expect a good mind, children, good fortune and wealth, be able to behave according to your husband and be happy to be perfect for immortality. (42)
 O Mon! Just as the eagle is adorned in a nest, so you are adorned in your house. You gleam when you get into the milk of cows. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You removed the old age of Chyavan, sent a horse to a fast-paced horse in battle for a king named Pedu, overcame sin and darkness to Atri, and restored Jahush when he was ruled. 
One who knows the season named Udyanti takes the property of his unpleasant enemies and brothers. He understands that this Panchaudan form is a season called Udyanti. He who gives the aj illuminated from dakshina in the form of Panchodan, he burns the opulence of his unpleasant enemies and brothers with his glory. (35)
The gods who are also the sacrificial priests of the Yagyapatras and the yajanyas of Manu, who are without death and know the truth, today, they should give us a son of great fame and always protect us with the means of welfare. 
O Agni! We greet you day and night with a true heart and come close to you every day. 
O Indra, who has been called by many! The sages made your chariot worthy of connecting with horses and the skin made your thunderbolt shine. The Angirathic sages had incited you to kill Vritar through their hymns. 
When the opulence of havi is taken near the mouth of the deities who cover everyone with sanskar, then the aj form also comes to me doing it. He receives this beloved substance of Indra Dev and Pusha Dev. (25)
O God of Agni! You are age, that's why give me age. This havi is well done havan. (4)
 O Indra! You are Sahasrakarma 
Washed by the leaders, squeezed with the help of clothes and sanctified with the hair of Aries, The Somras is as embellished as a horse bathing in the river. 
 O Mon! You are enjoyable and energetic. The host filters you with a sieve placed on top of the dronalash to get pleasure and energy. 
O agni! Come on, come. You travel all over the world. We sincerely wait for you to ignite with ghee. You are everywhere with a slanted age. You are visible and have a strong mind. (23)
We call upon agni to protect ourselves in battle from the desire of food. Fire in war has strange wealth. 
At the time of prabas, you are living happily in that house with a good heart. The gods living near the house are knowledgeable. May those gods please know this feeling of ours. (42)
 O Mon! You are intellectually distinguished. You are benevolent and enter Dronakalsh by making a sound. You install in the urn with air. 
The birds that fly in the sky facing down to eat the meat of the dead enemy army and the birds that fly in Dulok i.e. heaven, and animals and meat eaters like carnivorous lions, jackals etc. blue flies roam in the enemy armies to eat the flesh of the dead bodies. Meat-eating vultures should scratch the bodies of the enemy army with their beaks. (8)
Water is the destroyer of diseases like a drug and is the healer of all living beings. Let those same waters act as a medicine for you. 
 In the nearby yagna, when Indra drinks the sweet Someras, at that time Vajrapani gives sweet milk to Indra. 
O sakha ritvizo! Wake up with the same mind. You, though many, ignite the agni like those who live in one place. I call Dadika, Usha, Agni and Indra to protect myself. 
Dev provide the same gem to me for confirmation. That gem is the destroyer of the enemy, the increaser of the kshatra power and the destroyer of the enemy. (29)
O Indra! It's cooked for you. So you come soon. The Sun has reached the central part of its destination route i.e. it is noon. The Ritvijas are worshiping you through the squeezed Someras, just as the protectors of the dynasty worship the son of the housewife. (2)
All the things that have killed and won the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. I surround his radiance, strength, soul and age. He could not get rid of the traps of defeat. (8)
O Indra! Pleased with the item for which you illuminated the light-bodies for age and Manu, you are adorned as the doer of this great yajna. 
Somdev enters the rays of somras kept in the kalash and a vessel called Dashapavitra. 
The strange and praiseworthy wealth of the Adityas is for the host who gives a havan and performs enough yajna. 
Just as sheep and goats run away more frightened by wolves, so you frighten the thundering enemies and fascinate them. (5)
This stotao! You call to the earth without somp and wide. Call the worthy and heroic pusha of the yajna. You call the lord and the protector of our kamo to this yajna and the dankushala and the ancient hawk. 
O Indra! Come to this yagna of mine and listen to what I am praising. All the Ritvijas should act according to my wish. O Indra, the knower of those who were born! We become powerful with the efforts of the ritvijas I have described. (2)
O Vishwajit Dev! Give me to the desire to swastyan for protection for the goddess who follows the world. This goddess called Trayamana! Protect all our two-legged sons, grandsons, etc. and also protect all my four-legs. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! You gave eyes to the sage, who had dedicated a hundred aries to the elders and was made blind by the grieving Father, and made the blind man worthy of seeing the world. 
Oh, Usha! You illuminate the whole world with your glory, destroying darkness. The wealth-seeking Kanvaputras have praised you with praise words. 
Let us wear opulence with the power of nourishment, full of the eternal and wonderful substance of the friendly deity. (62)
O night! I worship you and the sun who do welfare. May Tushar's mother night be the subject of our best call. O good lucky night! You know our psalms while you are doing this time. Through this hymn, we worship You in all directions. (5)
Dhritarashtra said: O Sanjay, after gathering on the holy field of Kurukshetra, and desiring to fight, what did my sons and the sons of Pandu do?
Like a horse, the agni carrying the hands of the gods and the workman are ignited. The hosts who hold the havi pray to them. 
O agni that fills the sages! You are ours. You are called by infertile cows, bulls and pregnant cows. 
O Shataudana Gau! May your neck, your shoulders, your back and ribs always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (20)
O agni! You are the present Rudra in the wide sky. You are the master of the strength of the maruts and the lord of the grain. You go happily by red horses as fast as the wind. You are a worshiper, so protect those who perform yajna on your own. 
Listen to our praise while being pleased with the stable mountain, Havya, which fulfills the desire of the deserts and priests who give the desired fruits. Aditi, along with her sons, listen to our praise and may the deserts give us good happiness. 
O Indra! We know you with all our heart and have faith in your power. Oh, yearly! You inspire us for the sake of great wealth. O Indra, who has been called by many hosts! Don't keep us in a house without money and give food and milk to other hungry people. 
O agni! Give our gaming host a yagna boat that crosses the world. Ritvij is his dand and mantra is his feet. It will surpass and welfare our brave sons and wealthy people. 
O very powerful Indra! You drink somers to show great power and kill Vritra. O Indra, who is called to gain food and power! Drink sweet somras and be satisfied and pour out water. 
Those who kill the seven demons of Indra with their power, such as Vrithra, etc., and who get many places of the demons. We praise the bright, master and the most reliable Indra of the same praiseworthy many forms. 
The host who gives the aj published from dakshina in the form of Panchaudan, he gets the unlimited fruits of the yajna and inaugurates the infinite worlds. (22)
Vasishta sage Somras praises Indra, the wisher of the people, to protect humans when they go to Such a place. O Indra! Protect us forever with thousands of our kinds of food and welfare tools. 
All the gods like Indra etc. have unanimously given me a medicine to remove the stable and movable poison. The sun, sky and earth have given me poison-killing medicines. Ida, Saraswati and Bharati - these three goddesses have unanimously given me poison-destroying medicine. (1)
O radiant and worthy of drinking of the gods, Mon! You tap for the great offering of the gods in the yajna extended by the gods. May we be inspired by you and defeat great enemies in the war. You, being cleansed, make for us the deity of the divine and the earth. 
O Desertion! You inspire the clouds that rain water, to which the rain strengthens all the crops and streams. Just as poor parents are sad to see their daughter, clouds frighten and stagger people with their roar. Just as the wife talks to her husband and provides him food etc., the voice of the cloud roaring talks to the gaming cloud in the same way. (3)
By your sacrifices the celestial gods will be pleased, and by cooperation between humans and the celestial gods, prosperity will reign for all.
This gem is made of fall, dripping, strong and made of khadir i.e. khair tree wood. Jupiter tied it to get strength. Agni has given me this gem. O host! May this gem give you strength again and again, so that you can destroy enemies every day and again. (6)
O Indra and Agni! Come with you appointed to drink the somaras squeezed in this yajna. 
We call back your mind which has gone far and wide in the most distant places. You live to inhabit this world. 
Let Aditidevi and Ashwinikumar protect us. High-velocity deserts protect us. 
O tuberculosis! We know the place of your origin from which you are born. Knowing the place of your origin, we give it to you for indra etc. gods in the host's house. (1)
The white colour sings juicy and drink the wide sweet soma in all kinds of yagnas, they are happy to walk with the kamvarshi Indra to adorn them. Those cows that live by giving milk demonstrate indra's authority. 
O Indra and Soma! Kill and kill the demons. Those who fulfill your desires! Give low speed and excessive burn to the knowledgeless demons growing in darkness. Kill the demons who eat humans and take the slain demons away from us. Thus reduce the number of them. (1)
You are a karmay, a favored seeker and a well-litured one. Swaha for you including your light. You are also active at night. You are a favored seeker. You are enlightened. Swaha for you including the light to you. (21)
 O agni! You are going to give money to your worshippers. You have been well illuminated by samidha 
 O Mon! May we be in your friendship every day. Many evil monsters torment us. You destroy them all. 
Adorned with the beautiful Som hymns, they go to Dronakalash for the welfare of my meritorious merit. 
Indra has proved to be enough to protect this world. Who have created the world with their own hands by gaining more than all beings with the force of knowledge. It was through this knowledge that indra, the most famous, had killed the asura named Krivi with his thunderbolt and put him to sleep on the earth. 
Hey Mon! People drink you in all three gardens, so that you grow again and again. The air protects the mon in the same way as the mass of the same size as the air protects the year. 
O life and your air! Both of you transition into the body of a man who wishes for life and do not give up his body. O men wishing for age! May life and your air be combined in this body of yours. After this you lived for a hundred years. While living, enriched by your havi etc., let the agni god protect you, consider you as his own and give you a place of residence. (2)
 O Indra! O agni! The hosts have prepared a sweet sommy for you. Please pay attention to our praises. 
Aditiputra holds the three realms of earth, sky, heaven and agni, air, sun, and three fasts are stable in their yagnas. Hey Aditya! Your glory has been enhanced by yajna. O Aryama, Varun and friends! Your importance is beautiful. 
O ashchinikumaro with full wealth! You always drink a wake-up and discoverable somras. You give us food. 
Never let my ears smell good and closely listening. May my eyes be like garuda and always be full of the power to see. (4)
May the dyava earth, all the cows, those who hold all the trees and those who have all the buildings between them, may the dyava earth, cause happiness for me and redeem me from sin. (5)
 O agni! You are adorable. You are the God of heaven. You are the giver and dean. May we enjoy your pleasures, always remain your worshippers. 
Give ashwini dev and saraswati devi sweet medicine to us. Tvashta Dev has worn Yash, Shobha, Roop, Madhu and Soma for Indra Dev. (64)
O dynamic Maruto! You make the heavens and the bright water clusters with the fast that are not abducted by the asuras, fickle in a variety of ways. When you become powerful with the gift we have given, wear the most radiance and want to pour out water, you roar horribly. 
Savita has stabilized the earth with the help of many mantras and has firmly tied the duloka without any support. Clouds located in the sky like the ocean vibrate like a horse. The cloud is bound in a non-fussy place. From that Savita draws water. 
Due to the creation of chamas etc. useful for yajna, the debtors have become immortal even when they are dying. They sit among the gods because of their good deeds and receive the part of the yajna. 
Human beings know the pleasures of the refuge of the workable and the enemyless agni, that is why they are happy to obey the great agni. Men whose agni-praising voice is excellent become the recipients of heaven, those who have a good long life and a bright one. 
O Som Dev! Like Aditya Dev, you are accepted in the kalash. O Vishnu! We sing hymns to you. You protect Somers and us. No one can suppress you. (1)
Hey Mon! Just as the hawk bird comes into its nest with the word saying, so you go to the dronakalash by becoming bright. 
According to the three lights i.e. agni, sun and air seasons, they grace the world from time to time in the form of their actions. One of these i.e. agni consumes the earth in Samvatsar. In this way, she becomes able to do karma. The form of air is invisible in these. Only the speed of that is known. (26)
That which pervades the entire body, know it to be indestructible. No one can cause the destruction of the imperishable soul.
The mons who give items to the gods save their stoetas from sin. Streams of the squeezed and devon's anna som fall. The demons who save the hymns from sin and the Devamadkaris run. 
It is he who has created this earth-sky in the world, and the patient who has inspired the vast, wonderful, adorned and unfounded earth-sky through his skillful works. 
O ghost! I have been a body wrapped with a blanket in the east direction from the place of combustion, in that direction I install you on a goddess named Swadha, who satisfies the ancestors. The way the earth donated to the Brahmins by the donors follows heaven in the upward direction, we welcome you through Havi. O Gods! You become participants in this yajna. (30)
Listen to the hymns made by the erstwhile sages who rant the Usha of The Arun Varna. They give money to the Angiragotrian sages every day, sharpen the thunderbolt and protect the two-product and the quadrupeda for the benefit of human beings and hold the sky. 
Hey Mon! You give us the riches that go everywhere and as strange as horses, and take us. 
Indra changes the form according to his will. While doing Maya, Indra makes his body of various kinds. Indra, who performs sompan without the season despite being truthful, reaches the yagnas of the three saavans from the heavenly place in one muhurat when called with his hymns of praise and mantras. 
That Virat reversed and he reached near Sarpo. Serpo called on him and said, "Come, O poison ones." (13)
Omniscient, great and constant, with the desire to give a moving fire, they keep wealth in the south hand like the sun. He is always loose to the one who performs the hand yajna. Do not forsake the host with the hope of getting fire. O fire! You bear havi for all the gods who want to have a havi. Fire gives the best wealth to the men who do good deeds and open the door to heaven. 
The sun is omniscient and the divine rays are flowing. They hoist the flag of their rays. They show the world to every living being. For them. (41)
O Swami of waters Varun Dev! Do not violence the sins that human beings commit and the work that we all do against the dharmas related to you due to ignorance, because of that ignorance-caused sin. (3)
Protecting the yajnapriya and Mamta's son Longatama, sing and emulate him with the milk of his thrones. They know the yajnaanushthan and ask the father and mother of the long-term to eat the leftover food and preserve the yajna unbroken while serving both of you. 
O conscience! Just as the archer leaves an arrow that enters the chest, so you praise Indra by adorning him. This brilliant stotao! You defeat the praises of the enemy with your praises and attract Indra to the somayagna. 
Indra gives the desired money to the one who performs the yajna and pleases through praises. They give them money forever, never take away. They equally increase the wealth of such people and place the one who wants the gods in a place that is not separated by the enemies. 
O night! You are the same as the chickpea of the spoon. You take the form of a cow with youth everywhere. May you protect the bodies of me and my son etc. wishing to nourish us and endowed with the power to see. Just as divine men do not give up the body, so do not leave the earth. (8)
O Indra! The somras brought and squeezed by Gayatri, who took the form of a wet intoxicating sheen bird, pleased you. O Vajri! You had killed the vrikra monster in the sky with your power while expressing your authority. 
I am the origin of all creation. Everything proceeds from me. The wise who know this perfectly worship me with great faith and devotion.
I give up the water that is disturbing, destroying, migrating, suppressing the mind, causing inflammation, getting from digging and contaminating the body, combining my enemies with it. I won't touch that myself. (4)
Those who are the gods of war, they defeated the enemies by beating the milk covered with deer leather. (7)
Urvashi said, "Hey Usha! If this Urvashi wanted to give food to her father-in-law in the husband's house, she would go from the adjoining room to her husband's sleeping room at night and enjoy the fun with her husband day and night." 
Pururva said, "I will fall today, your lover who played with you. I'll never get up again. I'll go too far. I will die in that plight and the fast wolves will eat me up." 
The intellect of your sons is pleasant. We have squeezed someras with stones. You can plant your green horses, plough them and please come here. We sing ukth mantra for you. (78)
O adhwaryujano! The Indra who easily destroyed the ashna demon and made the unreachable shushna asura without a neck and who destroyed pipru namuchi and rudhikra, bring someras for those indras. 
King Som is the protector of creatures. They who protect creatures, make us happy. (22)
Your speed is pervading the whole world. He is in the form of Wadvagni in the ocean, the sun in the sky, the Vaishvanar in the heart, the food in the food, the electricity in the waters and the heroism in the struggle. Thus all beings are dependents of your speed. We taste the sweet juice of his deriding stream. 
This present vine originated in the land containing sweet juices. I dig it with the help of sweet-formed shovels etc. You are born of me. You also made us rich in honey juice. (1)
This cow becomes like a terrible poison while sitting and when it sits, it becomes like a darkness of death. (15)
O man! The untruth from which you have been freed is the two rays of your mother. O virgin! He is not the kind you think of him as you think. (2)
O wise Ashwinikumaro! You come to us three times today. Your chariots and donations are extensive. Just as the sun with rashes is related to the cold night, so do you both have a regular relationship. Please be subdued by the scholars. 
O act of destruction! He who created you, pierce him and kill him. We do not make you powerful for the slaughter of him who has not created you. (9)
Fire the narass in five prayas to protect us. Please protect us in the calls. They should destroy the shrew, wipe out the evil sense and protect the host from disease and fear it. 
Like the good destruction of the gods, let my hymn ritwiz grow in such a way that the sun increases its wide rays. Just as the carpenter makes chariots pullable from horses, I have made this hymn. 
Praise Indra, the master of all possessions, the one who stopped the enemies, the one who shook the enemy in battle and defeated him. Indra will give quick money. 
O sobriety mon! Be cleansed and accept Our praise in the same way that the king accepts praises. Hey Mon! You are sanctifying and unique. 
King Tirinder attained the advancement and gave four loads of gold along with camels and dasas to the Yaduvanshi king. Thus he attained heaven. 
At the end of one kalp, all living beings merge into my primordial material energy. At the beginning of the next creation, O son of Kunti, I manifest them again. Presiding over my material energy, I generate these myriad forms again and again, in accordance with the force of their natures.
O man of gemstones! The ancient Maharishis, who increased the age of others, lived forever through penance etc. Through them you live from the living age and do not attain death. May you live with the lives of those with stable spirits and do not fall under the control of death. (8)
O Ashwinikumaro! When your wife Surya sits with you on a fast-moving chariot, bright, bright and spreading rays scatter all over you. 
O patient man! You have been discharged from tuberculosis. You have been freed from the sin caused by disease, from condemnation, from treason, from the sin of Varuna. Similarly, I redeem you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god caused by disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the treason of the Guru, Dev etc. and from the sin of Varun Dev. I make you sin-free with my mantra. May both the world and the earth be benefactors to you. (6)
Savita Dev explains the eight worlds and illuminates the earth. They illuminate the seven seas and the three worlds. They publish various schemes. They are golden-eyed and are going to hold immense gems for the hosts. They are going to give a lot of money to the hosts. (24)
The one who commits violence against the Devbandhu Brahmin, that devastra moves like a poison eater among human beings and remains a bone. He does not get the folk found by Pitriyana. (13)
 O Indra! You are vajrapani 
Oh, horse! You are Yama, Aditya and the secret fasting air in the three places. You've met Mon. The archaeologists say that you have three genesis places in heaven. 
 O agni! Just as water is produced from the upper part of the mountain, so the learned hosts reveal you with their praises. Just as horses win in battle, so you are driven by our praises. From this, we get victory 
At the time when the agnis are located in the trees like grass-eating and hinning horses, their brightness is illuminated by the wind. O agni! After that, your path becomes black. 
The one who pleases the gods by giving a havya reaches heaven and sits among the gods. The flowing water gives him fast and the earth gives him satisfaction by the crops. 
O Arjuna, a demon with the same color as a tree! May the demons you sent to me that give poverty return from us. The weapons you have should also return. Your attendant thieves should also go away. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. You eat his meat. (7)
The debilitating and main som that the rivers have increased, they please the seven rivers without treachery by the som fingers. 
The person who donates this vasa to the udders and the udhas i.e. ain, this vasha is going to give him fruit through his udders and both of them. (18)
O Mon! You belong to the higher world. You live in paradise. You give us the land. You're furious. You come to earth. Please give you happiness. (16)
O aschinikumaro! Like a cloth-covered bride who is covered by your yajna, you do her good by serving her. 
This stotao! Welcome the most glorious, the guest-like, revered and praiseworthy agni with the same committees as agni, and go to the god of agni without death and serve. They accept committees and our service. 
At the time when the fast-moving deserts echo the mountains and caves or climb the peaks of the mountains for the welfare of human beings, all the vegetation is scared because of your movement and just as the woman sitting on the chariot goes from one place to another, so does the flying and reaching away. 
O you who serve Indra! The Somras has been squeezed out for you because of your actions, power and greatness. O Indra! When we call out by us, you join the two horses in the chariot while gambling in beautiful gambling and bring that chariot in front of us. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You crossed the sinking Bhujyu in the sea by unstaining, nor tired, fast-moving horses and by your physical efforts. 
Oh my friend and Varun! This is the hymn I have done for both of you and the air. It is as bright as Mon. You come to our yajna, know our praise and protect us forever through your means of welfare. 
I have heard from you in detail about the appearance and disappearance of all living beings, O lotus-eyed one, and also about your eternal majesty.
O water! Let us water what is your most opulence part with the senses. (9)
Vishwamitra said, "O rivers! The Bharatvanshis who have been commanded by you, who are inspired by Indra, who are willing to go beyond and who try to go beyond, will cross you. You deserve the yajna. I will praise you everywhere." 
O Indra and Mon! Your importance is big. You created great ghosts. You have discovered the sun and the water and destroyed all the blasphemies and darknesses. 
Fire fulfills the desired work. Indra dev increases. May Indra Dev be pleased to fulfill our desired work today. (Always) please complete the desired work, please give glory to the host. Please be pleased to wear splendour for the host. May the host be pleased to perform yagna for them. (22)
All the gods drink Som, mixed with the milk and curd of cows and squeezed by the ritvijas. 
Indra, who destroys the force of enemies, is praised by all in the war by means of wealth. He accepts sinless Indra hymns and is most pleased with the sompan in the host's house. O Vishwamitra! Praise Indra, who defeats and destroys the enemies. 
The chariot is made of vegetation (wood). Rath is our friend. Suvir was able to overcome the war through this. Let us stay connected with cows. Let us be heroically positioned. May veer conquer everyone. (52)
O Sun God! It is true that you are great and your glory also matters. (29)
O Pawman Mon! Your spreading, with the same velocity as the mind, the divine and the milk-rich streams fall into the dronaclash. O Mon served by the sages! The sages who build you turn your streams in the middle of dronakalash. 
The gingerless agni quickly climbed on to many of the woods by mixing and feeding its food items like trinitude etc. through its burning power. The high flames of agni that go around to burn are adorned like a moving horse and like the advanced and severe word-making cloud in the sky. 
O adhwaryu! Undeserved by enemies, present in space and undefeated by others, put soma on dashapavitra and purify Indra to drink. 
When the deserts with which the light heavens and the earth are combined, the worshipers who offer riches to the Stotas, whom they serve, when they hear our call, the creatures falling in the wide way tremble. 
O agni! Your very bright rays go everywhere like a chariot and like a food seeker, making words like lightning. 
May the sages who compose fourteen richas get this sacrifice well. (11)
I praise the powerful and quick-moving push and the wind. They are the ones who inspire and give wealth to the human intellects for wealth and food. 
The famous, light-doering, vivid, beloved, non-violent, pure and visible brightness of the sun, friend and Varuna rises up in front of everyone and is illuminated like the ornament of the sky. 
These bali som words under the kalash at the time of being refined. 
Just as the deer searches for the deer, so our other people search for Indra with the help of the somras found in godugandha etc. They wrongly go before Indra while speaking praises, so do not receive them. 
God the Father gave heads to the fathers. Aditi, the mother of the gods, is their owner. Aditi, the mother of the gods, is praised with nine lives. The seasons are from nine souls. The qualities of seasons are the ruler of their own subject. Those overdevas were praised with ten lives. The Father spent months. made the year their overdeva. He was praised with fifteen lives. Those who adorned the Kshatriyas were also praised with their lives. Indra Dev became their overdeva. He who killed the villages, who killed the animals, was praised with seventeen lives. He made Jupiter the deva of them. (29)
Surya Sushma is giving. Chandra Dev gets light from the rays of the sun. The rays of the constellations are Gandharva apsaras. These are bright. They should protect Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Sacrifice is offered for them. Offer affectionately to them. Swaha for these. (40)
If someone asks me by greeting me, I will tell the truth. O Jativeda Agni! If we get wealth from your praise, you will become its master. Everyone's wealth is yours, whether they are in heaven or on earth. 
On hearing our praises, the agni, the mountain and the savita who wake up in the morning, give us food with water. Give us the same food with vishvadev medicines. May the god named Bhaga with more wisdom inspire us of wealth. 
O Maruto! There are arms on your shoulders, ridges in your feet, necklaces on your chest and lights on chariots. You have in your hands lightning shining like agni and a golden turban wide on the glasses. 
O Indra! Just as the saritas fall into the sea, so may somers enter you. There is no god greater than you. 
O desireful, very powerful, wealthy and thunderbolt Indra! You have subdued the armies that rain the arms of enemies by your great power. You protect our goshala from enemies by various defense means. 
O host! The innocent gold that the Maharishis, the children of Daksha, had tied for King Shatanik by attaining harmony, the same gold, I bind you to get your long life, glory, strength, and hundred years of age. (1)
The amudha, the pragya, the deities, the bright, the adorned, the friends, the guests and the agnis that do our well-being are illuminated in the morning as strange light and are born in the form of the womb of water and enter the herbs. 
O sun! We continue to grow for a hundred years. (4)
Fire is helpful in the yajna that man performs for the prevention of sins. They are the guardians and beloved of man in the place of yajna like the victorious king. The host who collects the havi on the yajnavedi, agni comes to accept him. Protect us from the fear of those who obstruct the fire yagna and those who do us violence and from great sins. 
We make the all-powerful, powerful, and human-benevolent agni as powerful as a horse through our praises. 
O fire! You're going to know everything. Protect your own rays of guardian and the famous rays that saved Longatama, the blind son of Mamta, from the sorrow of blindness. We protected by you will not be able to destroy the people. 
The agni god, who associates with the gods in the yagyas, should enrich the glory and suwas of this yajna with himself. (5)
O bitter man who has won the war! You are full of joy and not sorrowful. You are going to go to war ahead and inspire the warriors and win the war. Protected by Indra, you should go near the enemies, burning their hearts. (12)
 O agni! You are above all 
The medicines! Soma is the subjects of the king, has come from heaven and spread on the earth and is born of Jupiter, may he give strength to this patient. 
These ekvrit i.e. the knower of Brahman is not called fifth, sixth or seventh. (3)
I am just punishment amongst means of preventing lawlessness, and proper conduct amongst those who seek victory. Amongst secrets I am silence, and in the wise I am their wisdom.
There is a deer called Rishya for basus and a deer named Ruru for Rudragans. For Aditya, there is a law of a deer named Nyanku. There is a law of rashed deer for the world and Kulung deer for the goal. (27)
 O Indra! You are going to shower wishes. We wish you. They bow down to you again and again. You are omnipresent. You understand the spirit of our hymn. 
I closely violate the sin god Nirtrati, who remains an enemy and comes forward, and destroys the carnivorous vampires. In this way, I destroy the entire demon race that attains wickedness and those who cover others like darkness. (12)
The pajra, who had knowledge of sama, was given three hundred horses and ten thousand cows by King Tirinder. 
And I proclaim that those who study this sacred dialogue of ours will worship me (with their intellect) through the sacrifice of knowledge; such is my view.
The horses of the sun know all beings, they take the light sun up so that the whole world can see them. 
I praise the ancient agni, the one who calls the gods, the praiseworthy, the serviced, the one who completes the work and who takes shelter in the yagnas. 
O water the basis of happiness! You make us worthy of food and give us great and delightful knowledge. 
By understanding the attainment of wisdom, the rich in the glory, the fasting of the gods and the deeds of the birth of human beings, they ask for the food that is present in all the works. 
O perspiration! Make words and thunders, put the water in the form of a womb in the herbs, go all around with a water-soaked chariot, and open the cloud tied like a leather mushk downwards, so that the high-lying positions become equal. 
O Cupid! As wide as the directions and directions are and the directions of heaven are told, you are superior to all of them and pervad the whole world. I salute you. (21)
O Maruto! On your shoulders is the weapon called The Rishti, the force that defeats the enemies in the arms, the golden turbans on the glasses, the various weapons in the chariots and the adornment in the body. 
Indra said, "O beautiful arms, adorned fingers, long hair and wide thighs and a brave wife Indrani! Why are you being vainly angry with Vriskapi? Indra is the best." 
I associate those hosts with eternal life when the agni of Garhapatya was offered to the Sun and entered the Path of Devayana and whose lives were destroyed. (55)
I call with the learned ritvijs the victorious enemies, who are victorious invading enemies, pervading the sky like water, for the happiness of all, the wise, the great and rich Indra from Somapan, with my glorious workable wisdom, for he is about to complete indra's grain. 
O Indra! Your mind is very hostile. You give boundless fruits to the host who serves by intoxicating mons and embellishes with greetings. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
I praise Idra and consider the praise that touches the yagna in eight and nine directions less than Indra. 
You provide supremacy (fast) for our lives. You give supremacy to our business. You give supremacy to our people. You give supremacy to our udaan. You give supremacy in our minds. You dominate our speech. You give supremacy in our karma. You give supremacy in our eyes. You give supremacy to our ears. (27)
Hello savita dev. Savita Dev is varenya, fortunate and wears gods. They orient the intellect on the best path. May they please inspire our intellect. (9)
 O Indra! You live everywhere. You give everyone a residence. The host worships you by offering somras. When would you be pleased to come to your sons' place, sounding like bulls? 
Fire is huge. Agni is the guardian of religion. Agni is a pioneer in yajna. I request Agni to know our mind. Please accept our sacrifice. Swaha for agni. May the agni be strong with the rays of the sun and please establish the host among the kings. (29)
 O Indra! You are Bhim 
This universe is kept in the form of Kumbh i.e. pitcher Samvatsar. Saints, that is, wise men, see many forms of day, night, etc. of that period. This time form God appears in front of all the present beings and merges them into himself. This period is called nirlep like the sky. (3)
O Usha Devi! Let the mountains and the places without wind be easy and easy for you. O self-lighted Usha! You cross the space. May us give us money to aspire, with a huge chariot, a sight-seeing and the daughter of heaven. 
O Devi Aditi! No one can do violence to what you fill. You're dear to many. You may well come with the god of happiness and wisdom. 
O indra without death! When you take a body near the sun, your form is adorned. You wear armaments while burning the army of enemies like an elephant and are as fierce as a lion. 
O medicine! You are excellent. The trees near you should be beneficial to you, those who are malicious towards us, they should also become favorable to us by your grace. (101)
O Shun and Sir! You accept our praise. Water you created in the sky, from which you irrigated this earth. 
Hey Mon! The ancient and the yajmas who broke the Kush for the sake of yajna had instilled in you their wisdom in order to get the great power and the food. O Veer Mon! You also send us for the force demonstration in sangram. 
Vishnu should make the yoni of the women worthy of conception. Include the signs of men and women in it. Prajapati irrigate the vagina with semen and conceive. 
Those who wish for war also start fighting with their sons. (2)
O agni! Taste the heart, light up our food well and bring those radiant grains before us. Conquer all those enemies in the battle and make all our days light with a happy heart. 
I was born like the sun. I have attained the wisdom of my father Brahma. (1)
The medicines who want the power of Indra, who showers water, are humbled and know the power of Indra's conception. The herbs that wish for fruit and please everyone roam like sons of barley, wheat, etc., who take various forms. 
Yellow in colour and fast-moving, these mons are made from a stream of water and attack the demons. 
O Indra! May your utmost seeker perform yajnakarma protect us. That action is pure and defeating all. Others can't defeat him in the war. 
O bright and able Indra! You stole a wheel of the sun with your power. You bring a thunderbolt with the help of fast-moving horses like the wind to kill the asura named Shushna. 
The herbs which are the womb of water, the food of agni and are new due to frequent growth, such thousands of named herbs should be brought here regularly. (8)
O deserters! No one can destroy the goddess nirtrati of the most powerful sin. Let him not kill us and end with our thirst. 
Just as kings go to war to conquer demons, so drugs go to the patient and disease. Due to being a disease killer, they are called Vaidya and Vipra. (80)
O enemies, the characters of yajna and the rich riches of the beloved, the marutos! Give you people the money you want. 
O man! May you be able to conceive like a bull and live. May your organs develop and your body expand. As your genitals grow, so you go near a woman willing to have sexual intercourse. (1)
He is the protector of the hymns and the heroic Indra! Listen to the words of us who are modern and willing to praise. You had become the eternal brothers of the Angiragotrian sages by listening to the beautiful invocations in the yajna. 
O Indra! You protected the unaided king Sushrava with your protective means. You gave Sushrava the shelter of kuts, guests and age, who remained the crown prince. (10)
O Indra! When the beautiful Shukracharya praised you, you were riding on it by joining the two horses with a curved motion in the chariot. The furious Indra had poured water from the moving clouds into the form of Dhararup and destroyed the vast city of shushna asuras that tormented everyone. 
May water be beneficial for us. May he please hold energy for us. May he please make us energetic. May God bless us with a great vision to see. (14)
 O Mon! Your spring streams rain just as it rains from heaven. Your streams rain food. 
No living being on earth or the higher celestial abodes in this material realm is free from the influence of these three modes of nature.
O leaf made of palash! Give strength and wealth to me, the one who holds the gem. Because of holding you, I will be the best than not taking anyone's help in liberating my kingdom. (2)
O water flow! You are downward flowing and very intense velocity. Still, please slow down. You have come to wash away the sins committed against the gods. Please protect us from painful enemies. (48)
Agni is a sage. He is holy, priest, panch and all-perishta. We sing the virtues of them. 
O Ashwinikumaro, worthy of a high place and sitting in his chariot! Bring your chariot to the place of yajna, which is as wide as the earth, with great gamblers, capable of raining, as bitter as the mind, arrogant and worthy of yajna. 
This darbha i.e. Kush is the cause of the destruction of the anger of its jatis and enemies. It is said to be a way to calm the anger of the angry enemy and the spiritually angry soul. (1)
O seeker agni! Shine especially to give us rich food by igniting because of the samidahas. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky should worship that food. 
Born in the Kshatriya jati and the masters of all the people, there are two types of kingdoms of us. All gods are ours, just as all the people are ours. God serves the yagna of the people of the people and the devotion of all the people. We are the best. 
Because of the elders' observance, having enough praise, praising the gods more and squeezing the somras, the great voice pervades all the good wealth. The learned Hymns make the gods aspire for yajna through their praises. 
Do not abandon me with sahasro horns, called by ghrit, those who fulfill the favored, Soma, Phara, Suveer and Jataveda agni. May those agnis establish me in the affirmation of cows and sons, grandsons etc. (12)
Our fingers have been moving for eternity and have been living together, lazinessless and have performed the ritual of thousands of yajnas related to Indra with their own power. They care for Indra like a sister who follows the attached fingers. 
Indra's ears come from a distance to hear praises. The stotas praise Indra. As a call to God, this praise automatically inspires Indra to bring Indra towards me. 
O sage! You go to the maruts like Aditya, giving greetings and praising them. O Maruto who defeats enemies by power! You hear our praises and come to our yajna from paradise. 
The revolutionary friend has stabilized his speed in heaven with his poetry. Varun pulled the water out of the clouds without any effort. The rivers that do the good of the world, like Varun's wife, become a brighter form of Varuna by becoming a radiant shalini. 
O you who don't have the gifts! Though My people are as despised as the straws, protect them and make us live forever. 
O woman! Just as this vast earth holds mountains, so your womb should also be located to be born at the time of delivery. (3)
The herbs mentioned by Angira Rishi, which are produced on high mountains and flat plains, should be welfare for us and give peace to our hearts. (17)
The succulent som that exists here, the soma that Indra Dev drank, we eat that benevolent soma with our heart. Som is the king. (35)
Madhukasha Cow was born from heaven, earth, space, ocean and agni. All the people who worship that madhukasha cow wearing nectar with a true heart are satisfied. (1)
O rich man, the son of force and indra called by many! No asura can force you. You come before us quickly by thousands of riders with wealthy. 
O Indra and Soma! Both of you come remembering us through the powerful and the means of traveling, and come and do violence against the demons who are hostile to us and destructive. O Indra and Soma! The demon who does bad deeds should not get happiness. Let the wicked one who hinders me even once, give him sorrow. (7)
You equip me with food, fame, glory and brahmavarchas. (4)
O Indra! This sweet somras has been squeezed for you. You are the master of this somras-filled urn. You give us more child money. You have conquered heaven by penance. 
O Indra! You know everything. May you give us the pleasure of this world and the vast paradise. May the light that pervades heaven give us happiness without fear. O Indra! You're great. We go to the shelter of your arms capable of killing enemies, protecting them from enemies and huge. (4)
Just as the cows without gwale go towards the barley field, so the deserts sent and interlinked by the mother of the earth went to their friend Indra according to the previous determination. Maruton Cray horses also went to Indra with delight. 
Both of you should be united to become parents in the season. By the sum of semen, you become mother and father. O husband! Climb to the bed with a human decision. In this way, give birth to children and increase your wealth. (37)
O God of Agni! You are the destroyer of those who do not donate, so give me the power to destroy those who do not donate. This havi is well done havan. (3)
 O agni! You are visible and light. Let our promises reach you soon. You pave our way in the yagna. We bow to you in the yagna. You are very appreciative. You are well lit. 
Hey Mon! By getting you in the war, the enemies become powerful. Indra and Agni eliminated the enemies before noon. Just as a thief kills the rich who go from the unprotected and uninhabited place, Indra ended the armies of thousands. 
Hey Yup group! Adhwaryu, the god-wisher and editor of the yagnakarma, has put you in the pit. O vegetation! The axe has cut your yumps. O Yupo adorned with glitter and pieces of wood! Give us the best wealth including children. 
O Shur Indra! Give us what is your protection concerning four years, three realms and five peoples. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You gave Aghash Pedu a white horse to give him the victory. That gift of yours is great and praiseworthy and the best horse of Pedu will always be our honour. 
 O Indra! You punish those who obstruct the yajna. You punish the wicked. You are rich. You increase somers in our homes. 
The horses on which Agni, the lord of the best possessions and knowledge-rich horses, climb, can be controlled happily. The blue-backed and wide agni all around has left the mares to walk forever. 
The callous, the guardianship and the south agnis followed him. (14)
No one else can go the path by which the Chedivanshi kings go. There is no more donor and scholarly person than Kasu. 
O enemies and aschinikumaros who use more havi! You come to hear our praise. Make us rich and give us worldly things. 
 O hosts! Just as all the rays are with the support of the sun, so the whole world is with the support of Indra. We are also supported by them. Just as the child has a share in the father's wealth, so should our participation in Indra's wealth. Indra gives part by force to those born and born. 
Indra's daughter-in-law said, "O Indra! Hosts prepare somras for you with the help of stones. You drink somras. Hosts cook bull meat and you eat it. At that time you are called by the hosts." 
Eight sons were born from Aditi's body. With seven of them she went to Devlok. The eighth sun is located in the sky. 
O agni! You reach out to your creator. I take you there well through pitrayana routes. The carriers of the havyas carry the agni havyas. O agni! Together, bring the yajnayas to the worlds of those who do the best deeds. (1)
O agni! May your path from time immemorial be easier. You pair your black and red horses which adorn you by taking you to the yajnashala. I call the gods sitting in the yajnashala. 
O wife! These women with shobhan ornaments have come to fill water. You also get up and get ready to fill the water. You are the best wife because of the best husband and the prajavati because of the children. You have received yajna in the form of water. You come with a pitcher full of water. (14)
 The hosts worship Someras from old stories. A shining Soma is also given as an offering to the gods for yajna karma. 
O Indra! The deserts that increase your speed and strength, they praise you and increase your spirit. O Indra with a beautiful and beautiful chin! You drink the mon in the median savan together with the rudras. 
O Indra! We have not been able to repay your debt, so do not treat us as evil enemies. We should consider the things you have discarded as a forest. (1)
O agni! You are the ones with the bright wealth, the wealth and the giver of residence. Let us be in your grace. 
O you who donating, Indra! The Vimadvanshis have made a unique and detailed praise for you. We know the means of satiating King Indra. Just as the gwala calls the animal to him by showing the grass, so we call Indra near us by luring him with havya. 
Brihaspati Dev called Prajapati Atharva the creator of the world and indra and the brother of gods like Indra etc. We salute Jupiter and Atharva. Being full of food, they bless us in the same way as they are full of food and the giver of all beings. (7)
O agni! You are favored. We call upon you. We satisfy with havi. You are light-eyed yourself. Please convey you to our Gods and Goddesses. (57)
To cover the horse destined for sacrifice, the clothes that are spread, the gold ornaments with which the horse is decorated and the means by which the feet and neck of the horse are tied, give all the god-loving items to the Ritvij devas. 
O Vajradhari, Lord indra of shatrattu and shakti! You walk by your all-round chariot towards the one who conducts enmity. 
Just as the horse attached to the chariot moves in battle, in the same way, the soma, squeezed in both the characters named Chamu and covered on the Dashapavitra, moves in the yagna. 
This is a very sacrificial and there was agni! You sat on the yajna vend, becoming admirable by accepting the greeting. Wishing to become a god, ritwij etc. follow your godly agni to get huge wealth. 
Hey Ritvijo! Do a havi home with ghee for Yama and serve them. Yama Dev give us more age to live a longer life. 
O the grandson of power and the agni of the light of praise! Together with all of you gods, give us all the money worth choosing. 
The boat located in the water is taken. (9)
O God of agni! Protect us with this wisdom of yours, which is the kind intellect of you and other gods. Pleased with wealth and food, let us get close to you and we should not get to destruction. (2)
Admired by all of you, Sukhveer, the protector of the body is the abode of yajna. Those who drink cow's milk are strengthened with sweet ghee. The hosts with the best mind of the golden radiant perform the yajna. (37)
It is the agni that is praised as the giver of residence. Sing, fast-moving horses and the bright people born in the best family go near. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
The bright hosts praise the guests of man, the son of plants and the ancient agni for protection. 
Oh my god! You are indra's energy, strength and semen. You are the power that makes Indra new and you are the riches of Indra. I want to keep you close to me for the victorious yoga. May all beings be close to me. (5)
Hey leaders! Krishna's son Vishwakaya praised you, so you brought his lost son Vishnuyu and gave it to him. O aschinikumaro! You have given a husband to your father's house and who is sitting in your father's house and attaining old age, without getting a husband due to leprosy. 
 O Mon! You are beautiful and green. You keep filtering. Leave the unfiltered part in the sieve. You give us worshippers a successful son. 
Give us the one who speaks like a cow, the one who speaks like a goat, the brown and green frog. In the year that produces thousands of herbs, frogs give us hundreds of cows and give us life. 
Those who cook the havyas, the bhadramukha, weak because of tapasya, holding horns in their hands and the welfare people of the whole world praise Indra. Indra was inspired by Sompan and rescued the aryans' cows from the violent. Indra had received cows and killed the enemies in the war. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the swans and the swans fall on the water, so you fall on the somras. Just as the buffalo comes towards the water, so you come towards the mon. You come together with Usha and Surya in all the three sawans. 
All the things that have been brought and won by killing enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children, women and brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not be freed from the bondage of the rillus. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall face down. (20)
Being squeezed into characters named Chamu, evoking praise and the meritorious Som approaches the devas. Covering the water and sitting in the drona kalash made of wood, the mons are covered by cow's milk-curd. 
Like the mother, seven Gayatris etc. produce verses and the yajnadhari praises Som for the splendor of the hosts, because Som is the sure knower of wealth. 
The vampire who has made me suffer in drinking water, traveling and sleeping, O agni! He should suffer the same kind of suffering with the child and this man should become disease-free. (8)
O Indra! Som has been absorbed in the kalash. You protect it. You give full glory to the hosts and protect them from enemies. (4)
At the time of performing the ritual of this karma, we should be blessed with wealth and good fortune by getting the grace of God. O Indra! We should continue to get the grace of the gods like sun, agni etc. in the morning, midday, evening. (4)
O dead man! For you, I make this earth high. I should not become the basis of violence by holding this land of all beings around you. The father god installs that famous Uni to decide your house. (52)
Listen to our call and eulogy to The Lord, Indra, Water and The Desert. Let us not suffer from the grace of the sun, but may we enjoy welfare and youth by taking life forever. 
Hey Mon! Give me the bright food, wealth, wisdom and glory to the food-bearing hymn. 
Aditi, who is a great and truthful, has created the power to know everyone, a friend of excellent speed and to asuras that will destroy Varun. 
What the owl says, it should be in vain. It sits in the place of pigeon agne. He is the messenger of whom he has come as a salutation to yama, the god of death. 
O Mon! You are the king of all. Please have mercy on your people. Fire is ignited with a lamp. May Agni please listen to our praises. We dedicate havi to them. May God of Water please listen to our praises. We dedicate havi to them. May the Goddess of Wisdom please listen to our praises. We dedicate havi to them. Scholars read praises in yajna. Savita Dev please listen to them. This sacrifice is dedicated to them. (26)
O wife! Unmarried people wish to marry like us. Donors wish for a son. As long as there is life in our bodies, let us both gather and stay together to get strength. (72)
O Brahmaudan! Know the meditators, those who cook brahmaudans and the hosts who squeeze somras and set them on the path to heaven. By walking through that path, the host is located in a good and sorrow-free heaven. Do as best birds as they can reach the class. (30)
May the lighter of the day, as bright as the sun, worthy of knowing, for the life of all, without death, ever-moving, the agni that awakens in the morning in the knower and hosts of all beings, give us the holy food. 
 May Indra protect us even today and tomorrow. Let them protect us day and night. He is the sustainer of vishwapati and gentlemen. 
The leaders of the yajna come close to Indra with the desire to protect the host and Indra puts them in the ritual of yajna at the same time. May the Devas end the anger of the asuras and bring Indra for the sake of our yajna. 
 Among all bhuvanas, he was called Brahman the greatest, his radiance spread everywhere. The sun appeared by their strength, by whose appearance the enemies are eliminated. All beings are happy to see them. 
While performing Ashwamedha or Purush Medha Yagya, the Devas tied the Ashch Form Purush with a yup i.e. wooden pole in their yajna. The Devas circumambulated seven verses like Gayatri and composed twenty-one samidhas. (15)
Aryama, friends and Varuna give the husband a welfare pleasure with protective means and welfare, with the same happiness, we should not do any action while holding on to the sons and grandsons that will make the gods who are quick to be offended. 
The devas made Ugradev, who wore a bow from the north corner, the ritualist of this. (9)
Which is the forest or the tree from which the gods have taken the material from which they have made the diva-prithvivi? The dyava-prithvis, protected by the gods, are properly located and unharmed, while the ancient days and usha have become dilapidated. 
 O agni! You are the master of yajna. You are going to call the gods. You are going to make enemies cry. You are the food provider of heaven and earth. You are going to attain bliss and truth. You are as bright as gold. Agni with such a form is naturally generated for protection before electricity. 
If someone kills a Brahmin's cow, it shatters all the joints of the killer's body. (4)
People praise the great and many good deeds of the great Indra. Indra, who was the enemy of the lord and the enemy, had crushed the powerful by power and the bandits by the Maya. 
O the best Indra! You protect the stoes quickly. Human beings know your great defense power. You must grow quickly from the havi etc. without a jarring and complete all these yajnas quickly. 
I have been an extraordinary master of wealth. I've always won money. The host calls me. Just as the Son gives food to the Father, so I give food to the host of the husband. 
I have found horses with beautiful chariots from Indrat, the son of Astitvagava, and horses with beautiful reins from the son of Riksh. I have got beautiful horses from Ashwamedh. 
Among the ten sages like Prajapati, Kapila was inspired to complete the yagna. Satisfied, Mother Nature conceived the one established by Prajapati. 
The sun has gold hands (golden). They are the giver, the giver of welfare, the best of happiness and the light. They are the destroyers of demons and evil. May they please be friendly to us. (26)
Through reverence, agnis are ignited and inserted into the havi agne. Shraddha is located on the shisha of wealth, this is what I know by hymns. 
I ask you the place of the end of the earth and the place of origin of all beings. I ask you about that place because of the semen of the raining horse and all the woods. 
O Indra! You fought with the Kuts against the strong asura named Shushna and killed Kuyava in the battle. You stole a wheel of the sun's chariot in battle and drove the sinful demons out of this world. 
O Aj! You climb up to go to heaven by this hot i.e. mature variable. You have become a form of agni through the unknown and attain the worlds of light. (6)
O aschinikumaro! You get confirmation for the splendor of your wife Surya by this spectacular kanti. Race your horses to get the glory. O god well! May you receive the praises. 
O Indra! You are a workman, you are born to give money to hosts and your strength is full of desire. Your mind is powerful and defeating opponents. Your virility group is going to destroy. 
O Indra! You protect the maruts. By your grace they have become more powerful. Be without anger towards the maruts as well as towards us. Be kind to us by defeating your enemies together with the maruts of good intellect. We get food, strength and long life. 
Curse these enemies with all the gods of shadow, earth and sky. These enemies cannot take shelter of any scholar of Atharvaveda and do not get prestige. They should die by hating each other. (21)
The sun revealed the sky and the earth. The sun extended the fibers in it. One foot aj took shelter there and made the sky and the earth with force. (6)
O Agni of the Tribe of Angira! You are like the son of water. The characters named Khucha of yajna i.e. Khuva move in front of you. We always praise the new and powerful agni in the yajna. (3)
May the sages who compose the mantras of Yajurveda get this sacrifice well. (21)
May the dyava and earth, praised by the gods first, be our welfare. Space means that the middle world gives happiness to our vision. Medicines i.e. herbs and trees of forests should benefit us. May The Swami of the Worlds and Jaisheel Indra give us happiness. (5)
Mother was located in the south direction. After this, the womb was established in balvati women. After being born, the calf started looking at the cow. Vishwaroop pervaded three schemes. (9)
O monster named Krita! Those who meditate have invited you in a vessel without clay in smoke-spewing blue and red flames and in uncooked flesh, you destroy them. (4)
Extremely stunning, certain to drink somers, successful, praiseworthy and possessive of Soma, Indra was made by Prajapati to donate. 
These brightest suns rise in the midst of the ushas, merrying to hear the praises of the stothas. This Savita Dev fulfills my wishes. These do not compress their brightness uniformly for all beings. 
O Arbudi! Show us such nymphs created by the Maya of our enemies, with whom there are hunting dogs. You show them cows that are licking the vessel again and again. You show them amazing omens like meteor etc. (15)
We always praise the agni that is light, the one with the panny, the one who has done good to the world and the bounty of the world. They also despise the Vaishvanar Agni with their glory and heat the bottom. 
Shobhan Yajnawale and Aparajit Pavman Som goes to heaven despising all the people. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Both of you come to brahmamuhurta, in the morning, in the afternoon, in the unseasonal period, at night, in the day or at any convenient time. At this time, no somras can drink other than the ashchinikumaras. 
It is divine. May he bless the Goddess with a blessing. Please increase Indra Dev. May God and Goddess bless us with great pride. May the Goddess and God please accept havi to give glory to the host. May God and Goddess please make that splendor permanent. O host! That is why you should also do yajna. (17)
The ancient donations made by Indra are famous. If they donate cow-rich and powerful food to the eulogists, then all beings can be protected. 
May our great praise be present before the wind that honors all, honored and completes your chariot. O the most sacrificial priests, the bright chariots, those who tame the horses that are woven in the chariot and the visionary wind! You worship the meritorious hymn with wealth. 
Being squeezed, som is inspired by the gods to get drunk and sifts from all sides on the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. The way Som, who aspires for the dominant cow in the yagna, goes into space with the same bright glow as the stream. 
All the things that have killed and won the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. I surround his radiance, strength, soul and age. He should not get rid of sense defects. (9)
 O Mon! You are self-conscious and the eye of human beings. Indra drinks you. Please give us children and knowledge. 
O thunderbolt Indra! At the time you hit the water-stopping vritra, your beautiful horses carried you. 
O Vrithrahanta, indra called by many and thunderbolt! Many of us offer new praises to you as a salary. 
O Indra! When your stomps tremble with fear, you must obey and protect them. O Indra! Protect our men who are the leaders of the sacrificial work and who have made us the chiefs. 
God named Bhaga, hold your hand and drive you from here. Ashwinikumar, sit in the chariot and take you to your husband's house. Go to your husband's house. There you become the owner of the house and control everyone. In your husband's house, you speak of good conscience. (20)
Oh, God! Save the psalm from fear. O Maruto! Give joy to the agni, Varuna, the friend and the one whom you bring to the good path. 
O men! You should accept the delightful and serviceable radiance of Indra, whose pleasant light makes the enemy ready for destruction. (1)
I praise Indra, who was called to win by many warriors in the battlefield and called by the hosts to get food. (5)
O house made of stone! You are mine. The sinner who wishes to destroy Me from the pole direction i.e. from the bottom, let him perish. (5)
Indra's horses should come towards us. Swami of wealth, those who are loyal to truth and somapayi Indra should come here. The scholar who praises is doing bathing etc. for this reason and we are doing the rites of Soma. (1)
Let us look above darkness, heaven and north. Let us go towards the divine god sun. We get the best light. (21)
How Gayatri is spread in the open and how is it made up of fifteen characters. How is jagati verse made up of thirty-three characters and how are twenty-one characters in anushtup? (20)
O sun! These yajnas bear you through mantras. You are diagonally and make the ocean very beautiful. (36)
Just as the chariot driver drives the chariot in the way and makes the word, so do these stone words in squeezing the juice of somlata. Just as farmers sow seeds, these stones expand the somras. Don't destroy. 
O Rich God Indra! You are the sole master of wealth. O Indra! You hold the people in both your hands. We praise you for having people, sons, water and brave sons. 
Free from expectations and the sense of ownership, with mind and intellect fully controlled, they incur no sin, even though performing actions by one’s body.
O agni! When you cook this dead body, deliver it to the fathers. When it attains life again, it will be in the hands of the gods. 
O Marudagan! Indra Dev is a great saint. Sing brihatsam for those who created light, increased food, awakened the gods for the gods. (30)
The happiness arising from Indra's sompan in the somras-containing yajna is going to fulfill the desire of the host. Praise with Vedic mantras should also fulfill the wish of the host. Those who drink som, accept the juiceless part of somalata and dhanvan indra are eligible to be worshipped by the praises of human beings. Indra, who lives in heaven and the lord of the praises, protects himself completely. 
 O Indra! You rear animals like horses, cows etc. Just as it is happy to see you with the golden posture, it is happy to see you. No one can forget your donation. You give us plenty of money. 
Part of the yagnas, the horse-riding in the chariots, the seer of all and the man-friendly Pushadeva is the friend who drives away the enemies. 
Marudgana's army imitates Indra Dev. She is like the subjects of Indra Dev and follows the path of Indra Dev. In the same way, all the divine qualities should follow human beings. In the same way, follow all subjects human beings. (86)
O Indra! When the stotas come together to please your brightness in the yajna and speak praise with a loud voice, you give money on the altar of the yajna in the navel form of the earth. 
O God who fulfills the desires and trembles even the wise! We praise you. 
The shining sunglasses rose spontaneously. The Ushas made all beings aware of the auspicious rays that can be ploughed in the chariot and all beings as in the past. After this, the bright ushas took shelter in the sun with the white color. 
May this praise give us undefeated power with delightful wealth. O Brahmins! This praise be for yajna-gain. 
Oh, Nodha! Recite beautiful praises to the marudganas, the creators of kampurak, shobhan yajnasampanas and flowers, fruits, etc. I use with folded hands patiently with all my heart the praises by which the godly group can be oriented towards the place of yajna in the same way that the clouds drop so many drops at once. 
Those who neither rejoice in mundane pleasures nor despair in worldly sorrows, who neither lament for any loss nor hanker for any gain, who renounce both good and evil deeds, such persons who are full of devotion are very dear to me.
It was a human fire! Sit in our yajna and complete it. 
O agni! You were born out of the mourning of the earth. You illuminate heaven and earth. The Creator created the universe from you. (45)
Wake up the follicles of each of our organs. Our skin should be soft and breathtaking. Let our meat be flexible. Bones should become the basis of the whole body. Our marrow is the bali to soften the body. (13)
O school! Be full of the sweet speech of many horses, cows, dear children, enough food, ghee and milk and be stable in this region and strive for our great welfare. (2)
May the twenty-eight nakshatras that give happiness and happiness in seeing, together they get me and give me happiness. I can get the unearned things by the grace of the constellations and protect the things received. My greetings to the day and night. (2)
O Brahmaspati! You are the master of this world. You know our praise very well. We serve you through this new and vast praise. We are your friends, so give us the desired fruit and make our praise a success. 
Perform the yajna of the kind and joyfully called by the devotees of the gods and the haptisampana, the first divider of all, the ones who possess fame and food, those who possess beautiful hands, the daanshil, the adornment, the behosman, the housemates. 
O Dhritarashtra, thereafter, in the midst of both the armies, Shree Krishna smilingly spoke the following words to the grief-stricken Arjun.
All the meetings that are received by vibhutimayi call Indra when Someras is ready. (2)
Swaha for food. Swaha for the producer. Swaha for food produced in water. Swaha for yajna. Swaha for food produced in murdha. Swaha for extensive food. Swaha for the last produced grain. Swaha for Bhuvan. Swaha for Bhuvanapati. Swaha for the overdeva. Swaha for Prajapati. (32)
Don't put us before an enemy. Do not go to any inaccessible place by being separated from the calves of our houses. 
Rohita has made the world like a soul by making the earth an altar, giving the sky the form of dakshina and accepting the day as agni. (52)
In order to please in front of us, we call the host who gives the desired results, the swami of nutrition, the one who stays in place of wealth and the nourisher of wealth, For the sake of service. (2)
O son of strength, agni! The host who holds your heart like a son knowing you as the Father, separate him from sin. O knowledgeable agni! When will you see us? O agni that inspires yajna! When will you inspire us to go on the good path? 
These women born in the family of ghosts should be touched by the anjan mixed with hatred, being the best husbands who are devoid of legal purpose. They should be non-shedding, disease-free and adorned and healthy to give birth to children. (57)
We call those who are the only Indras who are called into adversities by the people, who come running after hearing the call of the Psalms, who are lustful, powerful, truthful, hostile, fierce-minded and hostile, are called by these praises. 
Those men whose sin crushes the agni like the horse crushing the grass, those men who earn their livelihood from sin are fatal to Devayan. You ascend to this animal dharma. (50)
Indra Dev punishes the udadandas. They drive away violence. All Devgans want friendship with them. O mary! All of your gods want friendship. O God of Fire! All of you want friendship. (95)
This eternal power attraction has arisen with Sanatan Parmatma. The same Purana power has become everything. The same great, divine power illuminates ushas and she appears differently with each creature. (30)
O fever! Why don't you delight in other places? You become our control and make us happy. We pray to you to go to the outer land. (9)
The hymns who do the good deeds, the good-lit and the desires of the gods, are purifying their human birth through yajnadi in the same way that the blacksmith cleanses the iron through the blower. While illuminating the agni and increasing Indra, they had attained the great Godhan by sitting around the yagna. 
By knowing the Supreme Man, one attains the Supreme Principle. It is beyond darkness. He is of a character (color) like Aditya. Those who go on the path of death by knowing him, they get salvation from that path. Apart from this, there is no other way of salvation. (18)
Who gave importance to water, cried and slept by making water a triangle. This vatsa desire of Virat is going to fulfill. He has made the bodies of others his cave. (2)
Beautiful as a horse, deepthishali, mother of the rays and the owner of the yajna, usha be edgy with the ashwinikumars. 
What else is there to say besides this word of mine? People who know say that the milk that the milk collectors extract like water, keep it hidden in the Vaishvanar agni cave and protect the all-love and best place of the spread earth. 
This desireful and awakening Indra! You've been most involved in drinking somras by your glory. O Indra! The somras enters your abdomen. 
O Maruto engaged in the yajna! It is not fair that you increase your sacrificial strength with the praises of others even before you hear our hymns. 
Male deer for Moon God, Goh Kalka and Kathpod for Botanical God, Tamrachur for Savita Dev, Nakra, Crocodile and Kulipaya Aquatic Animals have been prescribed for Vayu and Samudra Dev. Sehi has been prescribed for The Lord. (35)
O Indra! Give us the yajna that is full of cows, full of hives and gives full life. (13)
O devi! You are Vasu, Aditi, Rudra and Chandra. Please protect you with Jupiter Rudra and Vasugan. Jupiter please delight to delight in your best mind. (21)
O agni called by the awful and fruitful agni! Listen to the words from which the sons of Kanva used to call you to protect yourselves, the words we used. 
O Indra! You are energetic, extraordinary and do hundreds of deeds. Please come and give us the son of Veer. 
O vajradhari, those with real deeds, those who drink somras and see indra! We know the wealth you have given to all hosts. 
Hey Mon! Just as the horse goes into battle with inspiration, so you go to Dronakalash and reach Indra's stomach with the inspiration of Ritvinja. O scholar Mon! Just as the sailor leads people across the river by boat, so you send us across sins. You kill our enemies like the knights and save us from the blasphemers. 
O unsatisfied aschinikumaro! Come to us with the same measures by which the Indus river was made of sweet flow, vasishta pleased and the sages of Kutsa, Shrutarya and Narya. 
Hey Rudra! You are superior to all beings by splendor. O Vajrabahu! You are very advanced in grown-ups. Take us across sin with skill and take all sins away from us. 
O Shur Indra! You give us a thousand cows and horses well. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the dulok, so go to the hut. 
O adhwaryu logo! Squeeze the somalta juice with the help of stones and wash it in water. People cover the somras with a cloth and milk water from the rivers. 
 O hosts! You sing the virtues of Mon. Som is knowledgeable and green. They hold huge currents. Like a snake changing earthworm, they change their old bark. They go to Dronakalsh playing like a horse. 
O agni! We want to get the same Vijayshree as Vijay Som and Agni have achieved. Remove those who hate us away from Agni and Soma. They should remove those we hate. We get inspiration for that victory from food. (15)
By performing their prescribed duties, King Janak and others attained perfection. You should also perform your work to set an example for the good of the world. Whatever actions great persons perform, common people follow. Whatever standards they set, all the world pursues.
O Bright vision Indra! You are the lord of the people who live on earth and in heaven. O indra without a jar. Hold the thunderbolt in your right hand and put an end to all the maya of the demons. 
O aschinikumaro! Give us the wealth that is in space, in heaven, or with five-class people. 
The agni takes place and sits in a place called the altar, which is made on the lap of mother earth as a yogenarian and scented with abrasive etc. The youth, the poets and the agnis of many places are ignited among the hosts by becoming the bearers and yagnaswamis of all. 
Earth and sky are going to approach the seekers and gods of heaven etc. Let them take our yajna near the gods. 
The Goddess holds God for wealth. May heaven and earth hold wealth for us in our yajna. Air is rich. Everyone consumes them. (24)
The white-coloured air, who is well-tempered and shelters his horses, serves the masters and wealthy people of more food. Those people with equal mind are also situated with the idea of performing yajna for the wind and have done things that benefit their children. 
The wise, especially the praise-and-aware people, light up their hearts with that supreme verse of Vishnu. 
Indra's great brightness appeared to complete the yagna of these hosts. After that all creatures were freed from darkness. The great light given by the fathers came before us, and he showed us the wide path of dakshina. 
 O Indra! You are hostile and very great. You come to us soon. You come to our place soon with your defense equipment. 
O agni! You are the soldiers of Indra, the ones who travel everywhere, the men of all, the souls of all and the bodies of all. I have come to your shelter along with all my colleagues. (14)
 O water! Please give us the power to conquer decaying diseases, including sons and grandsons. 
I slaughter germs called Alagandu, which contaminate blood and meat, through food and herbs as a means of havan. Those germs, which are afflicted or unsaturated by my herbs and my mantra, become inanimate. I kill the remaining and previously undead germs with my mantra in such a way that not a single one of the many types of germs is left. (3)
Just as there is a sharp place between the earth and the sun, in the same way, this arrow suppresses diseases and wounds like polyurine, diarrhea, etc. (4)
Aditi's son named Bhaga has saved this foolish man. Soma has saved it with nectar rays. The desert gods and agni have saved it for the sake of suffering. (2)
Oh, beautiful agni! Both your divine and earthly wealth that is generated every day is not destroyed. O agni! Make the psalm host the master of food and give him riches. 
May all the thousand leaf herbs on earth save me from death and sin. (13)
I go to the ashchinikumaras and their immediate brothers who are called at the appropriate time. Your defenses stay with us. 
The cause of the origin of the world is Brahman, Brahma is the sacrifice. Brahma has fixed the movement of vowels such as sublime, anudata, swarita, etc. Adhvaryu was born from Brahma. The means of yajna are located in Havi Brahma. (1)
The horses living with Indra are added to the chariot with our chanting of mantras. Indra, the well-wisher of human beings, wears vajra. (8)
In the yajna, the adhvaryu who speaks the mantra or whatever action the wise Ritvij does, the agni wears them in the same way as the navel wears the wheel. 
O bharadwaj! To protect us, please Varuna, friends, deserts, Pusha, Vishnu, Sarvapramukha-Agni, Savita, Ushdis and mountains with praise at this time. 
O Indra! When the good days come and you consider yourself to be the present near to war, the callers of the gods and the strongagnis are in the yagna calling the gods to give us money. 
Let the deserts come to us with means of protection. May the deserts with a good intellect come to us with the most famous and radiant wealth. The horses called their appointed hold wealth even when they live across the sea. 
O acclaimed manu! You alone can defeat a lot of enemies. You make each of our people strident for war. O manu with a good light! Meeting you we roar as powerful as a lion for victory. 
O Indra! Bharatvanshi-Kshatriya Vashishtha knows how to be away, not to meet. They run horses like a true enemy towards the Vashishthagotrians in the battle and raise bows. 
O Indra! Does the dog that attacks Varaha bite his ear? Thus Indra is the most important. (4)
O Maruto! Just as a cow has perfect horns on its head, so you keep a turban on the ends for adornment. Just as the sun spreads the brightness that helps in seeing, so you rain water. O leader Maruto! You are going to walk as fast as horses and know the work of worship as beautiful and as hosts. 
Oh, sages! Come quickly. We will praise Indra by making him sinless through pure songs and pure ukathamtras. Please the som unnatisheel Indra, purified with dasapavittra and mixed with godhugadha etc. 
 O friend, sir! Indra is strong. You refine someras and praise Indra, not any other god. Don't waste time and ability again and again in praise of the gods. You worship Indra collectively. 
I call the pure agni that dwells in the sea and with the sages of Aurva, Bhrigu and Apanavan. 
The seven pranas present in the body are seven sages. These seven sages protect the body by becoming lazy. Even while sleeping, they attain the awakened soul in the seven worlds. Even in this situation, they are constantly engaged in protecting the creatures. (55)
I praise friend, Varuna and the enemy-destroyer Aryama after sunrise. 
The quick-moving, soothing, glorious and pure mons are created by the Ritvites to abuse the enemies. 
This is an act! You are soaked in ghee, well ornate and do bad deeds. Just as a daughter knows her father, so you know your Creator, that is, return to him. (25)
In which Virat Parmeshti Resides with Vaishvanar Row, Subjects and Agni, who has possessed the great glory of the excellent soul, the criminal of those angry gods and the violent of the learned Brahmin, O Rohit Dev! Weaken by staggering and tie in your bond. (5)
The gods who are adorned, brilliant, the bearer of yajnakarma and the one who accepts both kinds of human beings, we describe through the praises the glory of the sacrificial agni and admirable by human beings among those gods. 
The sun has illuminated the eight directions of the earth, the three realms of beings and the seven rivers. Come here giving the best money to the golden-eyed sun-giving host. 
God said, "O Jativeda Agni! Where do we find you, who have penetrated into the waters and the herbs in many ways? O agni with strange rays! You were recognized by Yama in the ten dwelling places that were very bright." 
I tell you with my mantra the way to get rid of the man who has not repaid the father's debt over you. (2)
 O agni! You are going to live in the sea. Just as sages like Bhrigu and Apravan prayed to you with a true heart, we also pray to you with a true heart. 
O dynamic agni! Just as the Sages bring the name of the chariot, so you bring the yajna with other gods. 
Those whose organs are the means of attaining bliss and in whose heart the creator has given the power of vashikaran; Ghee, milk-giving cows should be in my right. (3)
Usha calls for him and the sun praises him. (1)
When the prachi direction of Mandradhana was received by the heart region, then all the enemies of Indra were destroyed. (1)
The huge forest kills no one. If animals like lions, tigers, etc. do not come, then people can spend time happily by eating the delicious fruits of the forest. 
 O hosts! Indra is the operator of yajna, the knower of the world, the pioneer, progressive and interested in drinking someras. You fill someras in dronakalash for Indra. 
Usha, who conquers darkness by the moving light, who has conquered darkness, gives joy to the world and awakens before all beings. That routine youthful usha is re-generated. Looking at the whole world, she comes only when we call once. 
Indra's ashes, the protectors of these humans, are green in color. The Indra who controls human beings and is happy to hear praises, I praise the same Indra. May indra sing a hundred and give us a hundred horses. (4)
Among the sun's lights, the best are called the lights, the best, the conquerors of the world, the conquerors of wealth and the giant. The world-lighters extend the vast, dark and indestructible brightness to see the glorious, radiant and great sun. 
Whoever knows this, Ishaan protects him from the corners of all directions. Men and animals who are compatible with him, Ishan Bhava and Sharva do not do violence against them. (16)
O agni! Abhyavarthi, the son of King Chaiman, who gives more money and performs rajayagya, has given us chariots and twenty songs along with women for the sages of Bhardwajagotriyas. The dakshina of king Abhyavathi, which is born in the Prithuvansh, cannot be destroyed by anyone. 
Indra is a thunderbolt, a king, the destroyer of fierce enemies, powerful because of the truth and the one who showers desires. Indra's powerful horses should take him to our yagna. (3)
O night! Make the snake that causes thirst and emits smoke without a head, that is, kill it. Destroy wolves that feed others because of firm molars by making them with broken chins. O night, kill that wolf everywhere. (8)
Just as the mother takes the son in her lap, so pratyancha holds the arrow. This pratyancha behaves like a woman with the same mind. This string should kill the enemies. May this string be pleased to destroy the tingling unfriendly. (41)
The oz, tej, brahma, vani, senses, lakshmi, dharma, vedas, kshatra shakti, nation, havi, yasha, might, wealth, age, form, name, fame, eyes, ears, milk, juice, food, agni, truth, ishta, purta, praja etc. of that Kshatriya are all taken away. Who kidnaps a Brahmin cow. He reduces his age. (1)
Indra's charioteers add horses to the chariot. These horses live on both sides of the chariot. These horses are worthy of desire and are capable of completing indra's journey. (11)
We call in this yajna, including the Maruts, the karyarshi upgraded, unsavoury by enemies, the brilliant, the ruler, the fierce and mighty Indra, who defeated all, in this yajna to get new protection. 
O Indra, we call you to sit on these kushas of ours by squeezing the somras and taking the charu purodash, etc. 
O jataved agni! You destroy your opponents by those who are famous horns of yours. Your horns are made without a little, like sharp weapons and powerful by our mantras. You are the destroyers of all with an evil heart and who is this, who is this, thus speaking and killing the demons who destroy them. (25)
A moving somras with thousands of streams is being prepared. This Somras, the swami of wealth, is indra's friend in every hymn. (6)
O sun! May we have sons etc. for a hundred years. (6)
We describe the exemplary deeds of host Vishnu. In their feet, the earth etc. live. They free us from fear. They are omnipresent and omnipresent. We are for their happiness. Wood God establishes you. (18)
When I got the money of cow, the horses also expressed happiness. What he meant was that Medhatithi had got the best cows and horses. 
O God of water! By the light you have, make those who hate us or those we hate radiant. (3)
 O hosts! Somerus is as fast as a horse, watery and expander of light. You filter someras, mix it in water and prepare it. 
These Shur Mons want to divide us by bringing all the assets by their powers. 
O Maruto! A person who considers himself superior to us or condemns the praise we have given, let all the brightness be his barrier and heaven should burn that anti-sacrificial. 
O act! You go out of here, don't stay here. Just as the lion goes to the place of the wounded deer, so go to your Maker. Your maker is like a deer and you are like a lion, so he cannot destroy you. (26)
O you are pure, Mon! You meet the milk of cows etc. to become eatable. You give us food. 
O strange-looking and thunderbolt-clad Indra! You have huge property to give. O Indra, who gives money! That money you give us with both hands. 
O patient man! All of us, who tie a gem made of varan tree in your hand, remove tuberculosis disease by the command of Indra, friend and Varuna. We remove your tuberculosis from your body by the command of all the gods. (2)
 O Indra! After listening to our praises made in Sanskrit, you will definitely not go anywhere else. You will be pleased to come to our own yajna. They remain stable, armed and furious in the battle. 
We praise the destination Devmata Aditi, Sindhu and Swastidevi through mantras for the sake of friendship. Let the earth and the sky protect us well. May the Gods of night and day fulfill our desires. 
Just as indra's thunderbolt, who fought for stolen cows, used to move again and again, so do the flames of the kamvarshi agni. Like the perseverance of the heroes, The devastating flames of the harsh agni burn the forests. 
May Ashwinikumar, both those who carry the havya-carrying, the demon-destroyer, the strong body and have strong hands come close to our people. O Ashwinikumaro! You meet the pleasing food, do not do our violence and come up with the means of welfare. 
O Indra and Agni! Come and drink the squeezed somers along with all the acts of heroism you have done, the works of creation and rain of visible beings, and the ancient welfare friendship of both of you. 
Please come to our yagya today (all) marudgans. May all the gods please come with their protective means. Please let all the agnis ignite. Please get all kinds of food and money for us. (31)
A king named Svanya came in the morning and placed a gemstone near me. I have accepted them and have blessed the king by increasing his state of being a son, a servant, and by increasing his state, that he may receive wealth again and again. 
O Indra! We will conquer the enemy of The Stota, who is helping you. Protect our part in the battle. Oh, it's a maghwan! Give us access to money and hinder the power of the enemies. 
 O Indra! You are always the one who increases, defeats enemies and is undefeated. No one can destroy the deeds of the hosts who worship you. 
O annibhilashi ritvizo and hosts! Serve the agni, the guests of all the people and the beloved of many, by praise. I speak the deepest word through beautiful praises for your happiness. 
Listen to things that benefit my ears. Let me listen to pleasant and praiseworthy things. (3)
How do hosts who praise Indra and become famous by performing yajnakarma when they are afflicted by enemies get the property given by Indra? When Indra is pleased with receiving the food in the form of havan, he knows our praises in particular. 
You protect our lives. You protect our loved ones. You protect our knowledge. You protect our eyes. You give us a comprehensive vision. You make our ears fully powerful. You be gracious to Urvi (earth). You irrigate the earth with water. You mould the earth with medicines. You protect the couplets. You protect the four-legged. You shower grace on us from heaven. (8)
O agni! By your grace, please increase the semen, strength, knowledge and winnable power of the host of whose sacrifice we are priests. Please make that host victorious. (81)
Oh, horse! Your birth is worthy that all people together praise you, for you were first born of water and you make great words to have compassion on the host. Your wings are like hawks and feet are like deer. 
May our food and wealth increase in all seven sub-directions and all four directions. May all the devas (vishva) please protect our wealth. (32)
O Sadapushpa Herb! By the effect of wearing Your gem, I know the three heavens, the three earths, the six rivers, that is, east, west, north, south, up, down and all these creatures. (2)
O Indra! The sage named Gautama praised you through speech for getting wealth and high-grain. 
O Indra! You are endowed with great qualities as a ruler and controller. You are going to defeat enemies. A man who befriends you is never defeated. Enemies can never insult him. (4)
O Ashwinikumaro! I am the man who knows how to give you a very wide and drinkable somras by the leaders in the houses. You come to my house with the desire to come to me. 
 O Gods! Agni is revered everywhere. Please send them as messengers in the yajna. They are friends and holy to human beings. Ghee 
O agni with glorious praises! When you are pleased to drink the somras kept in a wooden vessel and listen to the beautiful hymns and squeezed, you get a special adornment from the ritvijas. You increase the flames that give life to all and protect everyone in the yajna. 
The deserts defeat the enemies when called upon by all the warriors. O hundred of them! Like the malla that is called at this time, praise the rain-maker, the one who pleases all, and the most successful maruts with the shobhanchanas. 
The meritorious people imagined the form of Ven by hearing the words of the great animal. They received the water group by satiating Ven with the yajna. Wen, the lord of water, is moribund. 
O Indra! We come close to you by describing your qualities through the psalms. O lord of wealth! Let us get wealth with a strong power, a delightful, always present and putrabhritiyadi. O Amit, the glorious Indra! We have excellent food and food. Let us get the sacrificial Indra, who bears the same fruit as the jazilacha of the yajna and through the praises of the yajna. 
In this way, these eight very long, very intelligent, very gross, very pure, very dry, very krishna, romeless and rome and these four types of sycophants, characterless, gamblers, impotent should be handed over to such Brahminless asustroped people. (22)
Your daughter has been crying by spreading her hair, Savita and Agni should save you from this sin in your house. (60)
O god without death! The sage Ekdyu raises and pleases you and your wives by his praise. You give us more money. Indra with money in the form of yajnakarma should leave early in the morning. 
Manu is Indra. Manu is god. Manu varuna, hota and jataveda are agni. All human beings praise The Manu. Oh, my! You join our father's penance to protect us. 
O knower of the mind and lord Som! You are filled in vessels for Indra to drink and to drink. 
O abandoned bull! You are the base of Soma and the abdomen of Indra. You are the bodies of gods and human beings. You produce children in this world. In this village in front of you or in the cows that are present elsewhere for you, your people should roam happily. (1)
Protect us to get the fruits of the sun and the earth. May Someras be a stone of crushing and Someras protect us from sin. May the fortunate Goddess Saraswati protect us. May agni protect us, whose rays sanctify us. (2)
 O Indra! Somers mixed in cow's milk is dedicated to you. It is itemising. You be satisfied with this. You sing us with sunlight and give us money. 
We will provide a very comprehensive havi by aiming at Indra. Hosts read the best hymns to make the gods friendly to them. Sit on a bright, beautiful and joyfully attainable Indra chariot like the Ashwinikumars and listen to our praises. 
O shanruo! May the Agni God fascinate your hearts by ending the thoughts that are in your hearts about attacking us. They will completely drive you out of your dwelling and destroy your places. (2)
O glorious and pure Mon! Bring us the wealth that grows in both the realms and stay in the house of the host and confirm his earthly and divine wealth. 
We will certainly truly praise Indra. We won't lie. Indra kills those who do not squeeze somers and the somras give more light to those who squeeze. 
He got up and walked in the east direction. (1)
Savita Dev, who holds heaven and all other realms, follows the people and the poet, wears yellow armor. Savita, who is seen in many ways, even though she is famous, walks filling the world with speed and produces happiness worthy of praise. 
Prana and Apana Vayu, eyes, ears, lack of destruction and destruction, God in heaven and heaven - all these yajnasheshesh have originated from Brahman. (25)
 O Mon! You are holy. You are an enemy destroyer. You come in the worthy for money and strength. You are as fast and strong as a horse. 
O Indra! You are endowed with great wealth and deserve praises. We are your dependents. O Indra! Your glory is too much and our praises are too few. That's why you should listen to our praise. Just as the king listens to the people, so listen to our prayers. (4)
O gem! Sage Kashyap created you and he inspired you to do everyone's favor. Indra, the ruler of all the gods, had assumed you to kill Vritrasura. That is why the one who holds you among human beings is victorious in the battle. In ancient times, this gem with unlimited power was made by the gods as their armor. (14)
The brothers between the sun, which are consumed by everyone and the world-sustaining sun, are the air for recovery. Its third brother is Agni to accept Ahuti. Among these brothers, the vishwapatis, including the seven sons of Kiran rupi, appear. 
O stotao! When Indra is engaged in war, the enemies cannot surround his horses, at such a time praise Indra. (2)
Oh, a agni! The people who praise you receive the wealth of ashvari and become powerful and gain fame by destroying the enemies with their own strength. That fame is even bigger than heaven. The sages wake you up themselves. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Both of you come here through the god way, despising many people with your swiftness. The wealthy Ashwinikumaro! The psalms have a hymn to speak for you. Oh, hey, the disciples! The characters of the mesmerizing somras are ready for you. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The chariot that led you across was a horseman for the salvation of the Son of Tugrah. You set that chariot in the middle of the sea with your power. Just as a brave man wins a war and reaches his home by moving horses, so we have come to your refuge. 
Savita Dev illuminates all the realms without being defeated by other beings and protects the fast of all beings. They spread out their arms for the welfare of the people of the world and are the masters of this great world who fasts. 
There is no manipulation in this karma. There is no other basis for this. It doesn't even come together with your friends. The full vessel that is placed is retrieved by the cook. (48)
The bright and green som goes to a high place in the form of the dashapavitri of the sheep's hair, purifying his sinless body. The ritwijs with shobhan karma give enough water, milk and curd to Som mixed for his friend, Varuna and Vayu. 
These Rohits create their two forms on the Surya Rath and on the Ashcha. They are revered and enlightened. The sun with beautiful movement illuminates all the worlds. (42)
The willing hymn of food goes to the praiseworthy and the son of the force goes near the agni along with the new yajna. The agni forests are destroyers, black-tracked, white-coloured, sacrificial, hota and divine. 
O agni! By remembering what you protected us in the first suan, we are speaking beautiful praises in the third suvan. O agni! You give us wealth with great heroes, great fame and beautiful children. 
Those steadfast in this karm yog, always think, “I am not the doer,” even while engaged in seeing, hearing, touching, smelling, moving, sleeping, breathing, speaking, excreting, and grasping, and opening or closing the eyes. With the light of divine knowledge, they see that it is only the material senses that are moving amongst their objects.
At the same time when the Sages made their parents from the old to the young through care and were adorned by other good deeds, at the same time they got the friendship of Indra and the gods. Dhir Hribhugana holds confirmation by properties such as cows etc. for the host. 
O people who want equality! You should live in one place due to mutual love and use the same water and food. For this, I bind you all in a bond of love. Just as many of the wheels surround one navel, so you all worship agni while wishing for one fruit. (6)
O solace sadhvi! You are of special speed. I conceive in you. The gods who drink soma have provided a protector son in this world and in the hereafter. (9)
This is the hymn! You speak with me the unique and new hymns in the desolately derided diwa-prithvi for those Indras who are as willing to listen to the hymns produced in the yagnas as they are to see the enemies. They don't want the bad of their friends. 
The praises awaken the Ashchinakumaras well. All the yajnakarmas of bandhutarupi wake up Usha. The wise vasishtha praises in front of the Ashvinikumaras while serving the praiseworthy Dyava-Prithvivi. 
O agni! The adi sons of The Sage Vrustihavya have praised you in this way. You protect those psalmists and scholars. He has praised you with the words Shattkar and Namonamah. 
O son of strength, agni! For the sake of our nourishment, give us the good food brought from your enemies, along with the children. Give us more quantity of the food that you get from the unstained asuras in the form of cattle and milk milk. 
God, the presiding deity of water, bring his sweet juice for me. Everyone's inspiring sun has given me its happy and illuminated glory. May all the gods born of Brahman give me the desired results. (1)
Hey Aghnya! You kill your abductor with a hundred-legged and sharp-edged bow. (5)
O Krishna, I totally accept everything you have told me as the truth. O Lord, neither gods nor the demons can understand your true personality.
O Maruto! You stay close to me to help in the struggle and go to attack my enemies. Vasu Devgan should also proceed to destroy the enemy on my prayer. Among the Vasus, the chief agni should also move forward like an angel knowing the enemies. (2)
 Som is holy and shining. They publish Hitkari and Usha. Someras increases the water in the rivers. It flows three times seven. It resides in the heart of all. 
 O Mon! You are omnipresent and powerful. Your big rays are widespread and spreading light all over. You are pure and faithful. You are adorned in bhuvan. 
Mahanbal's grandson, The Son of Veg, friends with shodhan karma and high-money givers and Varun live in the place of Food. 
No one can hinder the karma of those who have always increased by sacrificial means, who are praiseworthy of all, without defeat by great others and with the power of suppressing all. 
Indra's influence is wider than that of the sky. Even the earth cannot equate the importance of Indra. Indra, who is fierce and wise to the enemies, annoys the enemies for the sake of his devotees. Just as the bull sharpens its horns for war, so Indra rubs his thunderbolt to sharpen it. 
 O Indra! Please plough your desired red and mature horses in the chariot to take the blood and wisdom of human beings on the path of peace. 
Hey Yup! You offer food and home products to suit Rulu. Taste the deity named Vanaspati Shamita and the liquids of the home with agni honey and ghee. 
O Varun Dev! Make me sharpen the ritualistic's yajnakarma, wisdom and force. We will easily climb a crossing boat with the help of which we can cross all sins. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You hinder the enemy like a stone thrown. Just as the birds go to the fruit tree, so do you go to the host of wealth. You deserve to be called by many people like brahma who chants mantras and messengers sent by the king to the district. 
O friend and Varuna who possesses the earth! We worship you to get the best means of happiness. The spirit of friendship that both of you have towards the yajnakar, by means of which we conquer the demons. 
The senses are so strong and turbulent, O son of Kunti, that they can forcibly carry away the mind even of a person endowed with discrimination and practicing self-control.
As soon as Indra was born, the masses, forests, herbs, mountains, the dyava-prithvivis and the water who wanted each other began to follow him. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The stotas, who don't mind other devas, holding the adorned hymns, approach your chariot for wealth in the same way that people go to the pandit who knows the righteous word to make their decision. Come up with the remedies by which you protect the specific wise men engaged in the yajna. 
O sun holding loops! Demons should not stop you from entering the waters. You abandon that condemnation and ascend into the sky. You have mercy on me. May we live in your beautiful intellect. O sun that is shining! Here your semen means many powers. You complete us with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and establish us in the goodness that is in the Supreme Vyom. (8)
The swift and space-driven mons are drawn to the fingers and are formed by the fingers. 
 O Mon! You are a thousand householders. You are holy and the friend of Indra. You are watery and rich. You flow into Dronakalsh every day. 
Agni made up for it today. Cook the digestible and pulp. Indra tied the goat to Dev. Today, the vanaspati dev increased Indra Dev with goat's milk. Please do the same. (23)
O Ashwinikumaro! For the devotee who worships the beautiful gods, irrigate the means of adornment and the land without perishment. 
I have found pitars 
You are happy for your husband and happy for the house. You nurture the father-in-law and give happiness to the children. (27)
O Maruto! I call Indra, the master of the power that attacks all enemies and does not bow down by enemies, with the movements of your armies and chariots. 
O agni! This samidha enhances you. You increase us. You are radiant. Sharp for us, may the earth give us the best happiness. Give the sun happiness. Give happiness to the whole world. Let us become the light of Vaishvanar. Let us fulfill various wishes with his grace. Swaha for agni. (23)
In this yajna, the important and dynamic Agni God edits the glory of glory and sacrifice. (8)
O Indra! We are your worshippers. We have done sompana. The prepared somersus is kept with us. That's why we call you to drink somers. (9)
O Saraswati Devi! Your divine knowledge is pleasant, welfare and prosperous. Your divine knowledge is as pleasant and enjoyable as the mother's breast is a happy sleep and pleasure for the child. It transmits good strength in the child and creates good qualities in them. (5)
Vishwavasu etc. are the reasons for the prosperity of Gandharvas - their three arts. He has four nymph-like wives. O grain! We touch you with what is very rich in your wives. (6)
O agni! You are omniscient. We set you in the middle navel of the earth. We dedicate the HV Form Fund to you. Please bear it. (15)
I ask about the lotus of water in which all human beings and gods are dependent, just as its petals remain in the lotus. Where does he live covered with Maya? (34)
The earth on which there are four directions, on which food is produced and on which farmers cultivate and which holds breathing and moving creatures, that earth should sing milch and eat food for us. (4)
O woman! You are sitting next to this lifeless husband. Now you get up from this. You have received a son, grandson, etc. born from your husband. (2)
At the same time that Indra attains the glow on top of the doloka, people see the light giving the abode of Indra, who is ancient and water-pouring. 
 O Indra! You are happy to drink somerasa. You increase both the semen and power of the host. You are glorious. The hosts extol the same glory of you. 
 O Mon! You are the giver of consciousness. You are dear to all. With the praise of scholars, you are cast in the characters. Just as the charioteer keeps the horse in control, in the same way, you are subdued with an edge and filled in the buds. 
Friends and Varuna increase the yagnakarma through truth. and are the adherents of the actual light. I call on both of them. 
O Indra! These singers of mantras named Ukth are singing your glory. You conquer every opportunity while doing religious work. (3)
Who has established this land and who has placed Draupadi over it? Who created this upper part, oblique part and a space beneficial for many creatures? (24)
The hymn of shobhan karma, who knows the praise of both of you, the best of the gods, and the beautiful one whom you both—friends and Varuna—accept the praises, let us know about the praise. 
Indra destroyed enemies with the same name to kill Vritra. Indra sent the vritra just like Usha's car. Indra, who was happy to die and vrithravad, went to kill Vrittar with his friends Maruts. O Indra! You have put on the beautiful body of the enemies. 
Let this fire wish for our hymns again and again. Fulfill our wish with the fire money that provides residence to all. By becoming the instigators of agni yajna, motivate us again and again for the benefit of yajnakarma. I utter praise for the agnee with the shobhan flame. 
O medicine that arises according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be five and fifty, fifty-five, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (5)
At the time when the chariot of these maruts is pulled by the greens with white dots and the Rohita-antelope is carried, the beautiful desert goes and the water flows. 
O God of Vishnu! Complete your hands with many riches brought from any other world greater than earth and world, that is, from vast space. After this, come in front of us and give us more money with your right and left hands. (7)
O Ashwini Kumar! When you carry surya's gift, you walk on a three-wheeled chariot asking the gods. That deed of yours seemed interesting to all the gods. Pusha accepted you just as the son accepts the Father. (14)
I accept the speed and science of these speakers sitting in front of the meeting. O Indra! Make me the winner of the gathering located in this community. (3)
 O hosts! You are going to perform a great sacrifice. You worship agni. Agni is great and magnificent. 
O workman Indra! May your horse called Hari, bright like the sun, bring you here for sompan. 
O serpent! You are eaten by ants and mornis break you into pieces. O herbs capable of removing snake venom! It is well said that you make the poison of sharkotak snake weak. (7)
By the way, it does not violate it, but when he thinks with his mind that I should violate it, then he violates it. (2)
O Indra and Jupiter! Along with putting som form havi in the mouth of both of you, praises that give you pleasure are also being spoken. 
This stotao! Sing songs worthy praises for this Indra. Indra, who penetrates the enemy city, is worthy of service to all. On hearing the riches, indra, wearing a vajra, sat on the kushas in the yagna of the kanvaputras and broke the cities of the enemies, sing praises worthy of being sung by the same trichas. 
O agni! Drive away my created enemies too far. O God of agni who knows the births! Destroy my enemies whom I do not know. May you complete this nation of ours fortunately. May all gods please this host who uses enemy destruction. (1)
I know the god with that essence. He has increased barley, wheat etc. I invoke the gods who collect like a bumblebee through praises. God should collect the barley, wheat etc. grains in the house of the performer of yajna and give it to me. (2)
People will speak of you as a coward and a deserter. For a respectable person, infamy is worse than death.
O agni! You ignite the samidha. You also convey the dear feelings of the heart of the mind to the gods. You should consume sweet ghee. You are omniscient. You offer it to the powerful god by doing havi sister. (1)
I have brought this patient man away from thousands of subtle visions, hundreds of semen and death for the age of a hundred years. Apply it across sin for the whole life. (8)
All women call him a wise man, who seems to them to be decayless. They consider a man with the opposite condition to be zero in knowledge. The learned son who knows this also follows the guardians. (15)
O Indra! I take my son with me and walk ahead of you to conquer the enemy. All gods follow me. You hold the enemy's share of wealth for me, so show me virility. 
I praise the same sacrificial and elaborate dyava-prithvivi, including the Ritvijs, with yajnas and salutations, which are going to give birth to the giants and devas, and the ancient poets who were placed at the forefront of praise. 
The medicines that cover the earth and the vegetation of which they are kings, those medicines with more effect than the global agni free us from diseases. (16)
Som, who takes shelter in the process of squeezing and who gets money to the juice squeezer, gives food to the stota. 
O agni! Be gentle-minded to give us wealth. May your brightness be good as you are illuminated. Be kind to you so that we, both husband and wife, may serve you only. Attack the glory of those who consider themselves our enemies. (10)
Ashwinikumaro! Please come to this somayag with gomaya, ashwamaya and the best path. You are true. You victimise the unjust. (81)
A man who does not perform the rites of Soma is worthy of inder's attack. Indra destroys that brahmantrist and those who do not donate Havi. (4)
Those who are illuminated like desert-burning agnis and grow twice as much as they want, their chariots are dustless and with gold ornaments. They appear with money and forces. 
O air! You and Indra have the ability to drink this somras. You consume somras uninterrupted and come here for the purpose of this. 
Hey Varun! To him who disrespects you, you become deadly to him. Don't you slaughter us. Don't you get angry at us. 
O Indra! You hold your fellow sun with both hands and forcefully sharpen the edge of the thunderbolt. 
O earth and the heavens with divine qualities! Beautify each other by sanctifying each other with your idols and powers and always bear the yajna. 
O Jupiter and O Savita Dev! Increase this celibate and host who sleeps till sunrise. Illuminate this host and celibate to great good fortune. Those who observe fast should make it well efficient. May all gods approve of this host. (1)
 O Indra! You are brilliant and rich. Pure Somerasa is placed on the asana. You sit on misgovernance. Drink somers. Give happiness 
That supreme principle is beyond heaven. That supreme principle is beyond the earth and the gods. That supreme principle is beyond the asuras. Who did the waters first wear in the womb? Where Devgan sees them first. (29)
May the water, which always flows, the means of cosmic and Vedic deeds, save us from all sins to get the best results quickly. (2)
O Ashwinikumaro! You protected the sage so that he could get a thousand riches in a day. O work years! You along with Indra killed the enemies who tormented Prithushrava. 
 O hosts! Don't praise any god other than Indra. Don't work hard. Praise the strong Indra in the Soma Yagya together. Pray about them again and again. 
At that time, the gods said that this is Vasha Avsha, that is, no one has a right over it. Narada made him the most powerful of the worlds, that is, the same vasha from all. (42)
O fever! Do not make cough and power-retarding diseases our friend. I again and again beseech you not to come here from that lower place.
O horse! You are the holder, bhuvan, controller and holder of both the worlds. You sacrifice in the vaishvanar agni. Please reach your designated place with respect. (3)
Agni Dev has been there since time immemorial. We want to follow his radiance. The host has milked milk like thousands of sages performing yagyas with the ingredients of milk, curd, etc. (16)
The sun is rising and climbing the sky. To attain the six urvis, they get the urvis while looking at the nation every day. (4)
O protector of many, Ashwinikumaro! Suryaputri was sitting in your Shatrakshak rath to take shelter. You become the wise leader and the dancer by the wisdom of this birth of the yagyapatra, the gods. 
O sun! You go near the clouds for food production and chastise them and bring them to the ocean. That's why your name is Sanasrat. The thirteenth month of the year, which is the house of Indra, you are ready to rain in it too. (4)
The red blood flow of women, which always flows due to the disease, should stop due to the destruction of the disease, just as sisters without brothers do not go to their in-laws and stay in their father's house. (1)
O agni facing all sides! Just as people reach across it by boat, so remove our enemies from us and destroy our sins. (7)
O aschinikumaro! Come to our residence three times. Come to the man who works in our favor three times. Those who are protectable by you, come to them three times. Teach us in three ways. Give us three times the pleasing fruit. Just as the clouds give us water, so you give us water three times. 
 O agni! You take the gods along and come to the yagna place in your happy chariot. You are the one who calls the gods and serves the interests of human beings. 
 O Indra! Please accept the praise of eight verses, full of new fantasies that increase nectar. 
The learned and unique Indra killed many hostile enemies in the intoxication of this Somras. O teacher! Give that same Shobhan Hanu Wale and Veer Indra to drink that melody-laden somras. 
This bull, which holds the kabandha of Vasu, is puman i.e. male, inner strength and semen. May the agni gods, who know those who are born, take us to Indra through the path of gods. (3)
Indra, who protects us well and is the swami of wealth, makes us happy in all ways with his protective means. May that Indra give us protection and we become masters of wealth with grace power. (1)
All knowing that agni should bring its perfect gemstone before us soon. All the godless of death have created agni for the yagnakarma. Akash is its father and nurturer and the adhwaryu irrigates it with the offerings of ghee. 
I pray for the prevention of disease by appearing in front of all the herbs which are of different sizes and colors like Shukla, Red etc. (1)
The inter-directions like Southeast, Ishan etc. tied this gem and east etc. directions also tied it. May this gem made by Prajapati defeat my enemies. (19)
Just as the food falls when it is cooked and becomes immaterial and does not survive at all, O night! Whoever wants to commit violence against us, bring him down in the same way. (4)
I have received the same gem that Jupiter had tied in the hands of devas, which destroyed the asuras, with cows, goats, sheep, food and children. (23)
The Stotas, masters of men, greats, guests of all, control of the intellects, beloved of the ritwijas, the knowers of yajnas, those who know the fast and the creatures that are born, praise through salutations and praises for the growth of agni. 
The rays that give knowledge of the mon, the deathless and the unmoving rays protect both real and movable. Through these gynaak rays, soma gives strength and godly food. It is only after the act of squeezing that the radiant Som gets the best praises. 
O Sacrificial God! The body of the earth is worthy of sacrifice. We release water into it. They do not leave beneficial water for the people. You free us from this sin. The water released in the form of swaha enters the earth and merges into the soil of the earth, please do such a thing. (13)
Just as the thirsty antelope comes near the water, so come before the somras kept in the vessel and drink it according to your desire. O Dhanaswami Indra! You should have a very energetic force every day while you rain downwards. 
 May the deities always make themselves pure, may the mantras of the Vedas from thousands of streams make us pure. 
All the things that have killed and won the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. I surround his radiance, strength, soul and age. He should not get rid of the loops of poverty. (6)
O agni! Increase the life of the living and send the dead to Devlok. Burn the agni enemies. O agni! You establish mangalmayi Usha in us. (45)
The seven rays of broad Brahman remain present in the form of semen. Those rays are spread throughout the world as the origin of karma. (17)
We produce praises for the vidhata, the revolutionary, the praiseworthy, the successful, the chief, the abominable form, the joyful, the joyful, the nourishing of wealth, the bearer of wealth and the agni that gives abode. 
Indra interrupted the enemies as soon as he was born. Veer Indra manifested his virility in that struggle in a greater form, cut the vritra, poured water and possessed the heaven wide with the desire of shobhan karma. 
The sun has gold in its hands. I call them to the defense. They will tell the sun god the host the position to be received. 
 O hosts! Due to good deeds, Indra is appreciated everywhere. They are vritrasura and enemies. They have a reputation in heaven. They are strong. They remain stable in wars. They are thunderbolts and evil destroyers. They are the winners. We also appreciate the glory of them. 
 O agni! You are close to us. You are protector, benefactor, protector and worthy of worship. 
Those in the mode of goodness worship the celestial gods; those in the mode of passion worship the yakṣhas and rākṣhasas; those in the mode of ignorance worship ghosts and spirits.
O agni! Come to the Havyadata Host to drink Someras with all the gods. 
 The host performs yajna for Indra. When we are two and two to three, please give your beloved opulence to our beloved children and also to enrich the next generation after them with sweetness. 
These clouds get them through their growths, wishing to get close to bulls and cows. Following the word Jupiter is combined with cows by clouds. (8)
O Indra! Complete this wealth of ours with cows, horses and bright money. Make us famous by these properties. This is praised by kushikgotriya sages who desire for heavenly happiness and are skilled in yajnakarma through mantras. 
The night appeared from the same Brahman and he was born from the night. (2)
Those who understand the divine nature of my birth and activities, O Arjun, upon leaving the body, do not have to take birth again, but come to my eternal abode.
 O agni! You are going to be dear to many people. You are going to establish wealth in the house of hosts. You are going to come to the hosts' house as a guest. You are going to be praised in the morning. You are immortal. May all human beings provide you with holy havan material. 
The calf says the latent word, on hearing which the cow comes and wraps it around and rams on the grazing earth of the cows. The cow, even being an animal, defeats man with its knowledge and shows its form by becoming extremely milch. 
O Indra! You inspire The Sage Bhargav to get food. You killed the Shushan Asura for the welfare of the havyadata kuts. You have cut off the head of the Sambar Asura who considers himself invincible to please the guest house. 
 O Mon! You are the king. We worship you with wisdom. You travel in space. You live in Dronalash. 
O dhata! The son located in the drains that carry the urine from the intestines of this woman into the bladder, which are located towards both ribs, should strengthen the womb, so that she can deliver in the tenth month. (10)
Vasishtha's son is Prithu and is the son of Bharadwaja. Out of these, Vasishta Dhata, The Bright savita and Vishnu had brought from close proximity to the anushtupchanda and sammantra purifying the havi. 
O God! Let us follow the cows to protect the host who squeezes the Somras or to praise them. 
These suns have risen with the rays that afflict the whole world. They subdue my enemies and do not subjugate me to any enemy. O broad sun! Your own powers are infinite. You complete me with all the animals like cows, buffaloes, etc. and place me in the sudha that is in the supreme vyom. (24)
 O one who performs yajna! Your wealth is your sacrifice. You sing verse-bound prayers for friends, Varuna and Aryama Devta when they are seated in the yagyashala. 
O Indra! Just as the owners of the barley field cut it into several times respectively, so destroy the food of those who do not utter the word 'Namah' and do not perform the yajna. 
O bharadwaj! Praise Indra and Varuna, admired by the worthy, powerful and happy people. In these, one kills the vritra by a thunderbolt and the other becomes a protector in the disturbances of the hymns by the wise power. 
At the time when white-colored, soothing water-giving and very large-scale rivers flow, you take the Somras for Indra's drink. 
Indra had got a job done by the poor Sudas at that time. An enemy like a lion was killed by a goat-like sudas, yup, tula, the enemies were separated from the needle-like sudas. Indra gave all the money to Sudas. 
Those who praised Prajapati or Indra and Agni meditated on the whole meaning of speech behavior. Those who wanted to say the truth in the form of deity-bearing words, they attained growth through the language power called Vritya Brahma i.e. Madhyama and pronounced the name of Prajapati, who was pleased with the fourth i.e. Vaikhari speech. (1)
O Indra and Megh! Both of you who gather our hostile armies, go before us and destroy them by thunderbolt. Your thunderbolt also wants to destroy the distant enemy and reaches difficult places. Oh, Shur! Dispel our enemies by various means.  Your thunderbolt destroys enemies by all means. 
The advanced and the rays-holding Som are located in the middle of Aditya and see all the forms of this Aditya. Mons located in the sun are illuminated by the bright radiance. The bright sun illuminates the dyava-earth that creates the world. 
The Supreme Lord Shree Krishna said: I taught this eternal science of Yog to the Sun-god, Vivasvan, who passed it on to Manu; and Manu in turn instructed it to Ikshvaku.
O agni! We give a lot of food, wealth and famous strength to the richest. O global agni! Bum, having equal love with rudras and vasus, give us great happiness. 
The blonde and the horses named Hari should together bring Indra in front of the Somras Rupi Havya in this yagna. 
O moon! You are the owner of the cow. You fulfill all our desires. You are anointed with speed, get up and irrigate me with speed too. You are a sharp form, wear sharp in me too. You are going to get money, get me money too. (12)
The pristine and pure somras automatically reaches near the one who does sompan in the yajna. 
The glorious and self-stalled heaven goes down before Indra. The earth surrenders to Indra like a desireful woman. When Indra merges his power among all the people, people bow down in order to the mighty Indra. 
O Udak's leader Varuna, friend and Aryama! The wealth you hold, we ask for the same wealth by the praises when the sun comes out today. 
O Prajapati! You take this nation to greater heights. O Prajapati! Just as (people) are happy to take a weight to a mountain, so we are happy to take the nation to a height. Just as farmers clean food from the midst of cold winds, so by the grace of Prajapati, let us sanctify the nation. (26)
The woman who tied this place like a rope, let us take that bride through children and money on the path on which no one has walked so far. (74)
The self-controlled yogi, thus uniting the self with God, becomes free from material contamination, and being in constant touch with the Supreme, achieves the highest state of perfect happiness.
While squeezed it lives on top of all the realms similar to the Somdev Sun. 
Just as the one who steals the animal hides in the cave with the animals and the people reach out to him, seeing the markings of his feet, so the bright and equally beautiful gods have reached you with the help of your footprints. All the gods came near you, so you yourself should eat the havan and take it for the other gods also. 
O Indra-chief gods! You are blessed and bright. Make our paths safe and give happiness. 
I wish I could also donate a cow and a horse. I've had somers drinking many times. 
O Indra! When the vritra left the ashani to kill you and you destroyed it with your thunderbolt, at that time you resolved to destroy the ahi i.e. the vritra, and your force pervaded the sky. Thus you have demonstrated your dominance. 
There should be a wish for the ancestors located in The World. (80)
We will satisfy these Indras by drinking somras today and tomorrow. O adhwaryujano! Bring the same Somras squeezed into the battle for Indra. Indra should listen to the hymn at this time. 
O Kumar Nachiketa! You have driven that chariot in the sky above the meritorious. You have driven that chariot according to the father's advice. This chariot has come here on your father's prophetic boat." 
When the yajman please me with somrus and praises, I conquer the enemy's cows, horses, riches, and milch animals through the armaments and intensify many weapons for the welfare of the yajman. 
O Indra! Like Manu's yajna, you drink som while consuming this yajna of mine to get the power to defeat your enemies. O Indra with horses called Hari! You come with the maruts worthy of yajna and bring the waters of the sky to the earth with the moving maruts. 
May the worship and the benefactors of all the gods and the grandson of water protect our moving beings. Worship the air to get praiseworthy food. O Shobhan invocation Ashwinikumaro! Listen to this hymn while you go to the yagna. 
O Somdev! Give us enough money equal to a hundred men and a strong and great grain. 
O agni! Just as the early horses gather in the battle, so all the possessions are found in you. O agni! You direct us to indra's defense tools. 
This is the hymn! Just as the carpenter improves the wood, so you should all praise Indra. Gambling in beautiful gambling and engaged in yajnakarma like a fast horse and remembering indra's most beloved, I want to see those with good intellect who have attained heaven because of the yajnas performed in the past. 
 Indra wears a bow by drinking the consumeable Soma and being pleased. Indra, who conquers the flow of water, holds the vr. 
O Indra! You've done that work. Oh, this desireful Indra! You are going to destroy the future disturbances of men. You were powerful. You swept away the stalled rivers and won the water possessed by the enemy. 
Just as the victorious people decorate the horse that goes to war, so are the ones who cross the Dasapavittra made of sheep's hair and the annabhilashi som. 
The beloved fingers of the squeezed and desireful Somras milk madhu. The somas with shobhankarma cover the water. 
O adhwaryujano! You prepare the sweet aajya and the havan and give the best somras to the vayudev first. O Air God! You would also like to drink this mon first. Oh, God! This mon we are giving for your delight. 
O agni! Just as you have a sense of worship for the Maruts in your heart, so may they bring good wishes to Us. Those who come close to you only when you hear the call, raise up such terrible-looking maruts by giving them a greeting. 
O agni praised by us! Be happy with us and be worthy of the yajna and perform yajna for the gods before men today. Hey Ritvijo! Call Achyuta Indra, who has the power of the Maruts, and perform the havan by aiming at Indra on Kush. 
O agni! You are the satpathgami, the strong and the destroyer of bandits. You are illuminated by the committees and you are going to win money in every war. (34)
O great, the sompaaner and lord of power Indra! Just as cows lick calves, so our praises lick you. 
Just as the red bull goes to the cows with the word, so the word mon, producing the word, goes to the earth and to heaven. People hear the word of Som just like Indra in war. Som makes loud words introducing himself to everyone. 
Indra said, "O Prayogi! You look down, don't look up. You join the legs together. No one can see your lower body. You're a woman, even though you're stota 
O Varuna! Bind this untruthful with your hundred loops. O one who sees the good deeds of men! The one who speaks untruth should not be spared from you. Those who work without thinking, find their abdomen contaminated with ascites disease and keep swinging like a sword sheath. (7)
Practical intelligence is asked in this place surrounded by four directions. (6)
 O Mon! While being purified like the sound of rain, the sound of you generated by the falling edge in the vessel is heard. Your powerful rays travel in the sky. 
O Siniwali! You are beautiful-handed, beautiful-fingered, beautiful delivery and give birth to many subjects. O Ritvijo and the hosts! Give it to that sinivali who follows the subjects. (2)
O Indra! Come to us with money to give us through the demonless and sinless way. Come from a distant and near place and meet us, protect us from a distance and near to perform the yajna and raise us up. 
The glory of the agni generated after aranimanthan is visible to the Ritvijas. When the wind blows targeting the flames of the agni, the agni mixes its flame with the trees and burns the stationary wood with its sharpness. 
In order to get all the wealth, the Ritvijas move soma closer to the Dashapavitra with a quick pace and purity. 
O patient man! The force comes out of the herbs in the same way as the cows go out of the goshala. These herbs give you healthy wealth. 
Being mixed in the water group, they say the word 'som' and those who follow the gods drop their bodies into the characters for the welfare of the host. Mon conceives in the herbs produced on the earth by his rays. With the help of the same womb, we find sons and grandsons. 
O friends and Varun who have seen far away! May we hosts and psalms arrive at your most elaborate and many-attracting Swarajya. 
 O Indra! All the supporting gods, fearing Vritrasura, left you and fled 
O Arbudi serpent! You and Nirbud leave this place. You get away from here. And fight. You tie the army of enemies with ropes named Input and Sandan. (3)
 The host who meditates on the useful things of life compiled by the sages, recites the holy suktas 
O unsettled Mon! Our rituals praise you. O you are pure, Mon! You go to the army of enemies to follow men in your great kingdom. 
The ten fingers with the nature of holding are squeezing Mon by becoming willing to act. These fingers are purified by Mon Indra for intoxication. 
The woman is a great man from a man who does not praise the gods and does not give riches. 
Arjun said: What is the fate of the unsuccessful yogi who begins the path with faith, but who does not endeavor sufficiently, due to unsteady mind, and is unable to reach the goal of Yog in this life?
He is the solver of those who wish. (12)
O Shobhan Warriors and being purified by Ritvizo Mon! You wear your hidden and beautiful juicy form. When we desire food, give us food. O Somdev! You give us life and sing. 
O Indra! We pray to you to do good to the ways of our human beings, cows and chariots. We pray to you for the yajna. 
O Fire and Mon! Of the two of you, Agni has been brought from the sky by force for the sake of host from the mountain of The Baj bird and Som from the Baj Bird Mountain. Both of you have expanded the earth for the sake of the gods by gaining growth through the psalms. 
O God! By your grace, the organs of our body become disorderless. By your grace, the bones and marrow of our body become disorderless. May our pleasures expand with your grace. (44)
This somras was very helpful in this yajna. At the time of vrithrahanan, Indra was overwhelmed by this. It was he who destroyed the ninety-nine cities and armies of Shambar. 
 O Indra! You are comprehensive all around. Like stopping water in the canal built, when did we prepare somers and stop to offer it to you. 
O teacher! You worship the agni, worthy of praise, powerful, well-intentioned, wandering in the midst of the earth and the sky in the form of angels of the gods, the truth, like man and the agni ignited by the mind, for the sacrifice. 
O priest! We hosts purify your speech. Hosts purify your soul. We hosts purify your eyes. We hosts purify your ears. We hosts purify your navel. We hosts purify your genitals. We cleanse your anus. We, the host, purify your character. (14)
The sage Trinity who has fallen into the well calls the gods for his protection. Jupiter took him out of the well in a sinful manner and heard his call. O earth and sky! Know our point. 
O bind! You live in my house with love and do not go anywhere from here. If you behave against me, Savita Dev should stop your path. May Varshtospati, the foster god of the houses, call you for me. You have a favorable attitude towards the host, who is willing to be harmonious. (3)
O revolutionary, the devotees of the human being, the adorners of the yagna, the glorious and the great agni! We ignite you through the samidhas in the yajna. 
At the time when the gods who wanted praise came to me with a swift speed, saying the words, the earth was filled with the light of the morning. Let the soothing food come to us. 
This stotao! Praise Rudra, the lord of the strong bow, the one with the quick arrows, the undefeated, the conqueror of all, the maker and the sharp ordnance. They hear our praise. 
O Madhu Lata! By wearing you, may my close journey be pleasing to others and may my distance move please others. I should become like honey by speech and become like honey through all actions and become the object of love of all. (3)
O agni! We know you in three ways in three ways. You are the protector and everywhere. We also know the ultimate secret form of you. We also know your original origin, where you have appeared in these forms. (19)
O Jathaveda! Both your stota and host are in your refuge for happiness. Give us wealth from the most delightful and many nations and children. 
Hey Mon! The wind is going to satisfy you and the rivers flow for you. May these two enhance your glory. 
O Indra! Drive your thunderbolt from space. O Dhanaswami Indra! Purify the host who acts quickly because of somras. You destroy the present demons in the east, west, south and north by the thunderbolt of your festivals. 
His havan fails and he is the culprit of the gods. (10)
I killed the enemies who were more powerful and two-by-two, ready to fight with the thunderbolt Indra and challenging me for war, with a stern word. I didn't bend myself. I hooked them up. 
The bad omen of the arrival of pigeons and owls should not do violence to our heroes and that bad omen should go away for the goodwill of our heroes. O messenger pigeon of Yama! Just as the creatures in your master's house consider you ineffective, so let us also see you. (3)
Just as the mother goes to the child or the milch cows go to the fasting calves, so do other rivers meet the Indus. Just as the king who fights ahead with an army, so too, O Sindhu! You go ahead with your tributaries. 
The Angiras served the agni by breaking the mountain that hid the cows, and the other sages said their work all over the place. In order to know the ways of getting out of the animals, the Angiras found light praising the agni that gave the fruits of the opinion and performed yajna with their wisdom. 
The broad Indras who visit the world in the form of the sun, they are the ones who are located in the upper realm and look at the ocean facing downwards. 
Savita, Bhaga, Varuna, Friends, Aryama and Indra, the money they all come with, they all give us. 
O Indra! Cut off the ear of the beloved test of the one you protect the dog that you desire. Indra is the best. 
 Som is great. They are going to do great work. They hold water in the womb. They nurture the gods. They make Indra strong and Sun bright. 
 O hosts! You want to perform yajna for the gods. You praise the somers that have been filtered and cleaned. 
Indra, who has the power everywhere, is destructive, extremely mind-conscious and quickly conquers his enemies, does all the work with the help of the Maruts. Indra came from heaven and did sompan and enlarged his body. Shur Indra killed the enemies with weapons. 
Those who seek the state of Yog should reside in seclusion, constantly engaged in meditation with a controlled mind and body, getting rid of desires and possessions for enjoyment.
The vast water had covered the whole world, the water conceived and gave birth to agni, sky, etc. After this, the only protector of the gods arose. We worship the same Prajapati through havya. 
O teacher! You go to Indra who drinks too much som by taking somras. You take the vessel full of squeezed som and go to Shatrunjayi Indra. 
O beauty Usha! Vasishthanastyal sages who wake up in the morning praise you repeatedly through hymns. O usha, the recipient of the songs and the annadatri! Light up for us. O shobhanjanam wali Usha! May your praise be first. 
O agni! You are ours while shining for the sake of Ritwij, so bring the gods to this yajna of ours. (3)
I had asked the Rig Veda about Havi, Samaveda about Oz and Yajurveda about force. That is, in rigveda etc., havi etc. was studied. O Shachi's husband and grammar rule maker Indra! In this way, the well-thought-out Rigveda, Samaveda and Yajurveda should not hinder the study of my teacher and give the desired results. (2)
Ashwini Kumars who give you the desired fruit! Agni Dev, the charioteer of the gods located in Jhlok, has been illuminated. The ajya has cooked properly from that agni. After this, milk with sweet juice is brewed for your food. Praise for both of you, we are full of houses and invoke you in the sacrifices. (1)
 O paradise! O earth! We come close to you by praise. We offer a lot of praise to both of you. 
May Savita Dev give us peace while protecting us. May the ushas destroying the darkness give us peace. May the clouds be peaceful for our people. May the happy regionalists give us peace. 
Only the material body is perishable; the embodied soul within is indestructible, immeasurable, and eternal. Therefore, fight, O descendent of Bharat.
O King Mon! Protect us from what has been cooked for you. Let the enemy not kill us and do not destroy anything like our wealth. You drip juice to Indra. 
He who brings food for the guest does the same feat as Prajapati. (12)
I observe the sun moving in the sky and perform a variety of yagnas to suit the seasons. I speak mantras as i happen for the happiness of the mighty fathers and go from the inappropriate place of the yagna to the appropriate place. 
O sing! You stay here. Don't you get away from here. You raise it with the best offspring. O sing! You become the one who receives the auspicious and the one with the same aura as the rays of the moon. May all gods make your hearts stable. (32)
O patient man! I give you havi for your life and free you from diseases like decay etc. O Indra and Agni! If this man has been caught by Pishachi, then redeem him from his sin. (6)
O agni! Let these presiding deities (the subtle part of the havi) become like a manor-fulfilling kamdhenu for us. These favors become ten times. Ten to ten times. Ten times a hundred becomes a thousand. Become ten times a thousand and become ten thousand. Become a yut (ten thousand) and become niyut (lakh). Become ten times the appointed (ten lakh). Ten times the value should be crores. Ten times the crore to ten crores. Ten times ten crores and become arabs. Ten times the middle (shankh padam) of the sea sea, ten times the end of the middle. Increase the end ten times to a greater number. O agni! May the presiding deity be done to us in this world and the hereafter. Let these favors become like Kamdhenu for us. (2)
O men! Serve the agni without death, unbeatable and homemaker by the abomination. 
O agni! The host who sacrifices you, praises you, greets you with samidahas, sacrifices you with praises, receives all the possessions protected by you. 
O manyu of good knowledge! I have fled the war, the one who did not participate in your great sacrifice, that is, who did not become your host. I made you angry for not doing your satisfying deeds. At this time you come as my strongman. (5)
Squeezing, going towards Dronkalash and giving us all the possessions, Som stays in the yagnabhoomi without fear, just as in the animals who have won from the enemy, the shura stays. 
O Indra! Give us the money we desire to squeeze the somras. You give us the strange wealth that gives us heaven. 
This havi should be automatic for the ancestors located in space. (79)
O Goddess! You are worthy of Dakshina. You have seen us wisely. Don't shorten our life, that is, make us live long, O Goddess! Let us also not reduce your age. With your mercy, may we have brave sons. (23)
 Som is energetic, remover of darkness and holy. Please provide us with the juice that can be appreciated from the panchs. 
This stotao! Worship the eternally raining deserts. They are the most intelligent in godly heaven. They also destroy the dyava-prithvivi with their glory. They make heaven more prevalent than earth and space. 
O unconscious man! Your unconsciousness has gone. You have received the light of life. I have removed from you the disinformation of the god of death. I also destroy your external and internal diseases. (21)
Behold now, Arjun, the entire universe, with everything moving and non-moving, assembled together in my universal form. Whatever else you wish to see, observe it all within this universal form.
This is dedicated to the presiding deity of Dulok. (1)
That visible circle rises near space. The moving and green horse holds the circle so that everyone can see it. 
O mighty Varuna! What did you say to the sun that follows the world? You give dakshina to the sun and heal with your mind. (1)
The third time of this is Dyau. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! I describe to the people all your old heroic deeds, both of you are happy physicians. I praise you for getting protection from you. The host reveres my praise. 
Let the white-legged cow go to mourn that army of our enemies and break down on that army suffering from our arrows. Oh my god! This army, which appears in front of you, should be infatuated at the time of war today. (20)
O Ashwinikumaro! We call veer, wealth-consuming, rijish-rich and remoted vishnuyu. His praise is just as simple as my father's. Don't separate our friendship. You come here and separate the reins of your horses. 
O herb with upward-facing leaves! You have received me by the grace of Indra etc. gods. You are going to defeat my stepmother. You take my step away from my husband and make my husband mine only. (2)
Those revered and non-destructive beendras led the flow of water towards the sea. He found the cows by producing the sun and illuminated the days with his brightness. 
They are desert youth, with stunning chariots, without condemnation, with awe-inspiring and unhindered speed. 
I praise the very famous and beautiful-faced Jupiter through salutations and salutations. May our mantra worthy of the gods serve Indra. Indra is the master of the hymns created by the devas. 
Indradi Devas accepted the karma of the Ribhus. Those devas were radiant due to giving boons to the ribs with a gracious heart. Vaja 
Just as the mother holds the son, so her welfare agni. Please free Ukha, inspired by all the devas and seasons, from prajapati vishwakarma loop. (61)
O Shataudana Gau! May your branch, heart, rectum and throat always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (15)
What is going to go ahead in these is panchwahi (to be picked up by five). The horses attached in it carry it properly. It does not appear to come and does not go. It is very far and very close. The meaning is that prana, apana five airs keep life moving. The senses are the horses that move the body forward. The coming and going of the soul in the body is not visible. This soul is very close and very far away. (8)
Indra, who is very praiseworthy and unmoved, is the only master of all the wealth on earth. 
The rivers in which the Indus is the mother of the waters, the Saraswati, in which the seventh is, are able to satisfy the desire and flow the streams with adornments. Let the rivers with their water-filled food and desire come together. 
The substances and living things brought apart by tearing the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not get rid of the bond of friend and Varun. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (28)
O agni! You are always awake in the interest of the people who live in patience, who live in Havi and are always bright in space. 
He exists outside and inside all living beings, those that are moving and not moving. He is subtle, and hence, he is incomprehensible. He is very far, but he is also very near.
The mons are purified with hymns and overtake the enemies like a moving horse. They live under the control of the stoses like a pure cow's milk, sheltered as a wide passage and a loaded horse. 
O agni! When you go as messengers of the gods, you do not hear the sound of your chariot because of your quick walk. 
O Indra! You are able to give food, som to the cows and know the strong chariot very well and you are mounted on it. So Indra Dev add his horses to the chariot. 
O peace user! You attain old age. You wear this cloth. You be the protector of cows from the fear of violence. May you live to a hundred autumns receiving many kinds of sons and grandsons. You hold wealth and confirmation. (5)
 O agni! You are well illuminated, you are shiny, rich. You get nourishment from Havi. Please destroy your enemies. 
Hey Mon! We who know the praises increase you with the praises. You come to make us happy. 
O God of Agni! I use you, who are strong for this host, to bear the havi through the mantra related to God. At this time, give us the happiness of getting wealth and son etc. Tell the gods like Agni, Indra etc. about this host who gives havi. (2)
O you are moderated by the ritwijas, with adorning ordnances, a very intoxicating and a more sweet som!  You shed your juice to drink indra. 
 O Indra! You are strong. We prepare someras by filtering well for your drinking. You be satisfied by drinking that madly sommeras. 
The juice of soma collected in medicines is sharp and essenceful. With that som rasa, the host should make Saraswati Devi, Ashchini kumaras and Agni happy. (33)
 O Indra! You have no enemies and accept all the worshippers as your brothers. You are free from brotherhood towards enemies and desire to destroy enemies. You are the controller of all. 
I am equally disposed to all living beings; I am neither inimical nor partial to anyone. But the devotees who worship me with love reside in me and I reside in them.
I speak the hymn of simile, provider of wealth and heaven to those famous Indras. This hymn is pronounced for the growth of the very wealthy Indra. I am proclaiming this hymn for the use of Indra. (3)
O Marudagan! Make this woman drunk. O sky! You also make it drunk and subdue me. O God of Agni! You make it matwali, so that it forgets itself and thinks of me. (4)
Vishnu, through his special motions, has rotated the eighty-four parts of time in a circle like a circle. He is a large-bodied, dividing diverse beings, praising, young and without virginity. They go to war. 
The kshatriya who takes the brahmin's cow, near his pyre bhasma, the women with hair crush their chests and shed tears. (2)
O Indra! May we receive the rich south that fulfills your desire for praise. O psalmist Indra! We don't give it to anyone else except the psalms. We will praise you a lot in this yajna by getting the best son, grandson, etc. 
Hey, Lord! I have repeatedly performed the first ritual of Agnishtoma etc. and at this time I am doing it again. In that you are being read the most delightful hymn for your praise. In this yajna there is enough somras edited for all the gods. Be satiated by drinking the mon poured into the fire with the word swaha. 
I exploit Pusha. (18)
Within this laboratory-like nest is the body-like nest. The dictionaries are well-known in the dictionary. This means that it is like a shala kosh and the body living in it is also like a dictionary. A man of death is born in this. This is how the whole world originates. (20)
 Agni is awake, so the desires wish for them, Soma receives them. Agni is awake, so Som says to him that I am your friend. 
O jupiter, who is asura- and the best of knowledge! Your sacrificial part has been found by the gods. Just as the revered sun produces rays because of the brightness, you are the giver of mantras. 
O host! Salutations to the great glorious Indra Dev. Host! For the happiness of the great glorious Indra Dev, offer havi, with which our ancestors and ancestors worshiped. (17)
O agni! The meritorious hosts go to you to get money through yajnakarmos. May you receive our thousand letter and perishable praise. 
May I make your king enter the tree with his wife and subjects in the bed-bearing pur that Prajapati has protected with man etc., may that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (11)
The fast-paced and dripping Som follows Indra in this way, just as the water flows downwards and pervades them. 
May the water purified by virtuous deeds purify you. They go to the sky through clouds and then come to earth and serve humans. Water reaches space again from earth and is located in the vessel that makes the creatures happy. Light up these attached waters on all sides. (25)
O agni! Let the monster go into your flames three times. The monster who kills the truth with untruth, consume him with your own glory. O Jativeda Agni! Cut this monster to pieces in front of me. 
Hey singers! Sing to the praiseworthy Indra. This stotao! Speak mantras for Indra and make hymns. 
The beloved of the gods, the green ones, crushed with the help of stones, the juice-dripping and the unsettling Mon, keep the demon on the dashapavitra made of the hair of the ritvija sheep. 
O most delicious and word-making mon to the gods! You're going to show us the way. You come to the kalash by many paths. 
This host, who wants to avoid Indra, Vishnu, Savita, Rudra and Agni Kriya, tie a gem made of tilak tree in place of armor or tie this gem to protect Prajapati and all sages sitting at the highest place. Prajapati is the swami of the entire universe and the benefactor of all human beings. (10)
I recite the praises made for Indra and Agni. Just as the boat moves in the sea, so I send my praise through hymns. The served gods serve us like the ritvijas. They are the destroyers and givers of our enemies. 
O narcotic juice and Yagyaswamy Som! While you are in the water, you sprinkle on a high place made of sheep's hair. O very intoxicating, Indra's drinkable and intoxicating Mon! You stay in dronakalash with the waters. 
There are four parts above the knees - lax, torso, shoulders and thighs. Who made them, so that the part of the body became torso strengthened? (3)
The mons who rained by their power from the cloud located in the dynamic space, they spread the group of som cows and horses everywhere. O enemy defeater Mon! You kill the asuras like the armored warrior. 
The priest should be filled with the minds of those hosts. May the minds of those hosts be filled with life. May he be filled with the divine soul of those hosts. May God of Fire and Water bless you with beauty. The speed of the wind god and the energy of the sun should mature. May everyone's disorders and malice be destroyed. (18)
Those who invoke the gods, the priests and the special seers of the yajna, the agni, know the yajna sequentially. 
We heard about this medicine originating on the Himwant mountain, which produces Garuda, and went there with food. Thus we received this medicine. (2)
O agni! May we serve you with this bright praise. Receive our praise and burn the demons who do not praise. O agni revered by friends! Save us from the wrath and the failure of those who condemn. 
O Jupiter with golden intelligence! You protect the great sacrifice of those ritvijas by being fruitful, progressive and non-violent, who please you, praise you and whose walk makes shanru tremble. 
O agni! Those who are the benefactors of the fathers and the leaders of the sacrificial work divide your brightness into many places, just as you are pleased with them, so be happy with our hymns and be in this yajna. 
May the herbs brought by us, capable of destroying diseases and affected by mantras, protect the humans and animals of this village. (11)
With a green beard and hair and an iron heart, Indra grows by drinking a quickly potable green somras. The green horses take Indra, who has sacrificial property, to the yagna. May Indra remove all our plight by adding horses to the chariot. 
Protect me in the east direction with the gods named Agni Vasu, the local god of the earth. They protect me in the act of keeping feet and in the place of placing feet. They should protect me in the city where I go and they serve my interests. I surrender to the protector agni in every way. May this havi be attained by agni. (1)
O air! You are a youth, that is, the welfare of the people and Indra is your charioteer. You come to fulfill countless desires and drink squeezed somers. 
Just as the ritwij irrigates the sacrificial land with ghee, they irrigate the whole earth with desert water with a gentle motion, because just as the horseman teaches the horse, in the same way they subdue the fast clouds for the sake of rain and make the inclined cloud waterless. 
O agni! We all reach out to you today by greeting. We greet you with our hands held high. We are dattachitta in yajna. We offer you with our heart. Please convey this message to the Brahmins. (75)
 O God! By your grace, listen to welfare words from the ears, get to see auspicious scenes from the eyes. May we praise you with healthy hands and limbs. By the grace of you gods, whatever life we have attained, we can make good use of it with praise. 
O yama of the third savan! Due to the excessive use of jagati verses in your praises, your name is Jagachhand and you are called Ribhu because of pleasing Sudhanva, the son of Angiras. I have received you as a base like a stick, so bring the end of this sacrifice closer to me. This wish of mine is the best of sacrifices. (2)
O vegetation! Deliver the heavens to the place in which you know the secret names of the gods. 
 O Mon! You are a money giver. Give us money. We praise you. We add your juice to the goras. 
Oh my god! You have been born near the gods and are the beneficial friends of Soma. You be the giver of happiness to the life, vision and eyes of this man of mine. (7)
Hey jizz willing! We extend your male sense like a bow string. You attack your wife with a happy heart like a bull capable of conception. (3)
O enemyless earth and sky! The sacrificial deity sat next to you for Sompan today. 
King Sudas killed twenty-one humans who were settled on both the banks of the Parushni river to gain fame. Just as the young adhwaryu cuts the Kushas in the yajnashala, so did Sudas cut the enemies. Indra has created maruts to help Sudas. 
The one who becomes the host or the Brahmin who follows the guest husband i.e. the guest, he looks at the food i.e. the substance related to the yajna and says that it should be. (1)
May the flames with a bright mouth give us peace. Friends, Varun and Ashwinikumar give us peace. May the best deeds of the one who does the best deeds give us peace. May the wind blowing give us peace. 
May God bless you to participate in the yajna. They are the guardians of the hosts and the guardians of the hosts. On the request of all of us, please come to the yagnashala to drink somras. Somras has been taken in the kalash for the instinct of the divine god. This is your native place. Please be stable here for all of you gods. (33)
The messengers of the gods, the golden chariots and the agni with beautiful flames all wish to go to the yagnasthalas. Full of red-horse, the most beautiful and gritty food, they always look as delightful as a home. 
May everyone's creator Dhata Dev, charitable Aryama and everyone's motivator Savita Dev accept my wish. Along with them, Indra and Tvashta Dev should also listen to my praises. I call upon Aditi, the mother of brave sons, so that I can find respect in my like-minded people. (2)
O fire! Don't let us submit to a violent, hungry and grieving enemy. Don't even hand us over the toothed to the toothed snakes, toothless, horned animals and violent monsters. 
O Indra! Adorned by the men who perform yajnakarma, squeezed with the help of stones, those who please the gods, the masters of the cows, those who fall in the old vessels, those born in the season, those with many yajnakarmas, the means of the yajna of human beings and the pure somas from the dashapavitra fall for you in the vessels of the yajna in the form of the dhararup. 
The work should go to its creator in this way, just as the deer, elephant and antelope named Aini quickly pounce. (11)
Being tied is a sin. (16)
O Indra! In this yajna, the stones of crushing somlata give you som for you by calling you som wala. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the Yuloka, so go to the jhuloka. 
O Usha with food and wealth! You must accept the hymns of the Psalms by being of the best knowledge. O usha, worthy of being chosen by all, the old, the young woman and the praise of many! You walk according to the yajnakarma. 
O best fruitful Vayu! Your most powerful, very fat and young ox-like horses bring you from the middle of the earth and the sky to the place of yajna without delay. They move very quickly. Like the rays of the sun, their movement does not stop. 
In the same state, in the same yajna, the present and the same as the husband and wife, the sacrificial one is engaged in the same work, and the fire that Adhwaryu worships day and night is old or young, but he is without eating the heart of those two persons. 
The leaders and the deserts of shobhan daan rain the clouds from the sky for the welfare of the host who gives the havi. They leave the cloud for the welfare of the earth and the sky. Rainy deserts travel with water that goes all over the place. 
O Maharshis called Vishwamitra, Jamadagni, Vasishtha, Bharadwaj, Gautama and Vamdev! You give us happiness. Maharishi Atri has accepted to protect our house. O father! You are worthy of worship through our greetings etc. You also give us happiness. (16)
Savita produces the golden form that she takes shelter in. The sun is certainly praiseworthy by humans. Savita with diverse properties gives delightful wealth to the stothas. 
O God of Vishnu! You provide us with many means from the world, the earth and the space world through both your hands. (8)
O Vajradhari Indra! We admire your wishful courage, defeating enemies in wars, making space and serving horses called Hari. 
O son of force and agni! Let's go to get you in the yajna. We praise the sustainer, the illuminated flame and the ancient agni in the yagna. 
May this man be able to sechan by the grace of Indra. He became the best in Dyulok and Earth. O men desirous of superiority! May you be the best of all beings in the world. (1)
Both the bows acting like mutually beloved women, protect the king in battle in such a way that the mother protects the son. They leave the conflict and kill the enemies of this king's enemies. 
O Indra! Sitting in a chariot, you travel in many ways like a joyful antelope. No one is able to stop your movement. You are great because of your power. You come here when we prepare Somers. (2)
O Indra and Agni! When you go to Someras, we describe the heroic deeds you have done from time to time. The enemies of the gods have been killed and you are both alive. 
O Indra! May we always be your friends, raising you by praise. O Indra who protects everyone by importance! It would have been best to protect you by being afraid of the war and destroy the power of the violent. 
I destroy germs of different sizes, four eyes, mottled and bright in colour. I also destroy the back and head of those germs. (2)
The somras who delight in the work of squeezing gladly receives the vayu, indra and ashwinikumaras. 
O true Ashchinikumaro! You both come together to hear the most glorious words I have spoken and the most glorious words, to see the yajnakarmas, and to eat the havya. 
O men! The global agni is the first. Look at them. These mortalities are gaspularly deathless in humans. These agni poles are known to be broad, indestructible, body-bearing and growing. 
 O Mon! Those holy streams of yours are going to protect us. You come here with them. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Naturally, like smooth and feathered birds, the fast-moving horses take you to the host of the adornment. 
Swaha for one. Swaha for two. Swaha for a hundred. Swaha for a hundred. Swaha for the individual. Swaha to heaven. (34)
I praise the agni founded by Prajapati Manu. The most sacrificing, the human-bearer and the God agni were sent as messengers by the gods. 
Varuna makes way for the release of water under the cloud for the welfare of earth, heaven and space. Rain, such as barley, etc., wets the grains, in the same way the king of the world, Varuna, wets the earth. 
Bhujyu, the son of Tugra, was dropped into the water by the enemy, so he was very sad in the darkness. In sagar, he found four boats which were sent by the Ashwinikumars. 
On which foundation was God initially established? What is the story of their origin? What was that productive material like? He originated on land. Vishwakarma is the seer of the whole world. It is spread all over heaven. (18)
 Sages have composed Veda mantras. Saraswati helps to increase the knowledge of the host who studies them. For that host, honey, milk, ghee etc. provide nutrients themselves. 
Banaspati Dev sets an age for Indra Dev. The plant gods increase them. We praise them with binomial verses. We end our good fortune and our income to them. They are rich. They give us money. Hosts perform yajna for them. (43)
Savita Dev walks from morning to mid-day through the advanced route and from mid-day to evening through the decadent path. The sun god worthy of yajna walks with the help of white horses. They come to the yagna from a distant land destroying all sins. 
Poverty never comes near the hosts who cook bahmoudan with wide ingredients in the manner mentioned. After the death of the host, worshiped by Yamraj, he lives happily and after getting the permission of Yama, he reaches near the gods. He is pleased with Vishwavasu adi Gandharva, worthy of Someras. (3)
O agni! We call you the giver of the most food like the sage Angira and praise you again and again with your virtuous mantras. 
The golden dwaradevis are adorned with the Pavman Som and climb upwards in wide directions. 
O agni! In your way to and from you, flowers grow doves. Here is the abode of pond, white lotus and sea. 
As much as the glory of this man named Narayan is, he is even greater than him. The only part of this i.e. the fourth part pervades all beings. The three stages of this, that is, without death, are present in heaven. (3)
Agni Dev is the giver of power, the creator of the gods, the knower of the beings and the source of force. They decorate the yajna with their flames and wish for the drops of hatred poured into the home agni and their light. (3)
O god wives! You should consider this Yajna Mandap as your home. We call on you. You come and sit on the seat of Kush. You be happy. Please accept Havi. (24)
O glorious agni! You, satisfied with the treasures of the abominations, call upon the gods and worship them. 
But those who are temperate in eating and recreation, balanced in work, and regulated in sleep, can mitigate all sorrows by practicing Yog.
O Indra! Let the secret maya of the Gentlemen never destroy us at night or by day. Don't let us fall into the hands of enemy armies that hurt us. Don't separate our friendship from your mind. We wish you to remember our friendship by wanting our happiness in your heart. 
I admire the gods of adornment through new hymns. I admire varuna, a friend who longed for the happiness of the psalms. May the brave friends, Varun and Agni come here and listen to my praises. 
O Ashwini Kumaro! You are young and beautiful. You come and sit on the seat of Kush, you are with a tendency like Rudra, you come. We have prepared somers for you diligently. Please accept it. (58)
 O Mon! You are strong and holy. You make a glorious path from the stream in the yajna. You are a money giver and a power giver. You should be pure and sit in the urn. 
O night! The twenty-two and eleven ganas of your gods and those who are less than this number, O daughter of Jhuloka, night! At this time, protect us with those protectors. (5)
The steadfast will that is developed through Yog, and which sustains the activities of the mind, the life-airs, and the senses, is said to be determination in the mode of goodness.
Indra is going to rule over all human beings, possessions and varnas who inhabit the panch-kshitis. 
Tranquility, restraint, austerity, purity, patience, integrity, knowledge, wisdom, and belief in a hereafter—these are the intrinsic qualities of work for Brahmins.
The womb of water, controlled by the gods and the somas with kranta karma are born on the earth with an enlarged mind. Young Sun and Mon are known separately since the time of birth. Half of his birth is published and half is hidden. 
May I make your king enter the tree with his wife and people in the tree with which Indra is determined to protect through his powerful arms, may that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (9)
O fire! How do your shining and soaking flames give food and age, from which the sons and grandsons sing yajna-related sammantras while receiving food and age for the sake of their children, etc.? 
How do the learned agnis have many hymns and with which praise are incremental? Jupiter god sobhan grows with praises. Listen to the hymns we have composed at the time of the invoking of the God named Ajaekpata and Ahirbuya. 
We fill the agni with ghee. We increase agni with ghee offerings. Fire-hearted qualities are bale. Carry agni. From that we go up to heaven without hindrance. The best heavens are attained. Books are installed. (51)
The drop of water that fell on me from the tree is the fruit of that tree. The drop that fell on me from the cloudless sky is also air. Those drops of rain touch my body or soak my clothes. May those drops remove my sins by being able to clean the sin god Nirtriti. (2)
Directions are cows and moon is their calf. Those directions give me the necessary strong food I want due to the calf of the moon. May they give me a hundred years of age, subjects, confirmation and money. (8)
Jupiter got Usha to see the cows and erased the darkness with the help of sun and agni. Just as the marrow is pulled out of the bone, so Jupiter pulled out the cows from the protection of the force monster. 
Yama said, "O Yummy! Just as the creeper wraps the tree, so do you embrace a man other than me. Let that man hug you too. Wish that man's heart to win and let the man want to win your mind. You have welfare cohabitation with him. 
This stotao! Praise the special-eyed, thousands of-eyed and relaxing Som by a Som named Gayatri. 
When the heavens of great and bright form begin to appear well from the rays, then the gods are radiant to live in that heaven. The sun, the perfect leader, has destroyed the dense darknesses for humans to come and see properly. 
Jupiter praises while inaugurating the roaring clouds. That is why they are considered scholars. (3)
O great Indra! You are great and you are worthy of praise in all three of our sons. O Pragalbha, the Brave and indra who holds all the realms! You destroyed the demon by force by the thunderbolt who defeated the enemies. 
He who created it does not see its womb. He who goes into his womb sees it. The child born from the mother's vagina is many times trapped in the trap of the sin god of birth. (10)
Protect me in the west direction with the sun god Dyava and the earth. They should protect me in the act of stepping and in the place of stepping. They should protect me and serve my interest in the city where I go. I surrender to the Sun God. May this havi be received by the sun. (5)
Those who rain water, who fulfill desires, who are located in the form of the sun with seven rays, who took a thunderbolt and ascended the sky and killed the Shambar asura and who created seven rivers are Indra. (13)
O medicine! You destroy the creator of the demons and the act. Destroy him who desires our death. (2)
The word Som sounds like rain and the glow of the destitute and powerful Som moves in space. 
O agni! If there was adhwaryu etc. and in the form of ritwij, they praise you in your yajna, you become the protector of the yajna and become a bright one in your house. 
All these different kinds of sacrifice have been described in the Vedas. Know them as originating from different types of work; this understanding cuts the knots of material bondage.
 O Indra! Demons are going to rain weapons from all sides and roam everywhere. Please so that such demons cannot come towards us. With your help, we can destroy such monsters. 
I orbit the sun with my own force by being carried by the fast-moving and bright colour horses. When the host's Mon abhishava calls me, at that time I pile up the enemy by the means of violation. 
O Indra! Who can suppress the person who lives in your mind? O Dhanaswami Indra! He who gives prayer to you, finds food in heaven and in the future. 
O agni filled with your glory! We ask you for happiness and a son. 
The enemies who want to be evil in the house, the road and the inaccessible places cannot suppress the hymns adopted by Varun, Aryama and mitra. 
O Lord Vishnu, seeing your form touching the sky, effulgent in many colors, with mouths wide open and enormous blazing eyes, my heart is trembling with fear. I have lost all courage and peace of mind.
The Supreme Lord said: O Arjun, because you are not envious of me, I shall now impart to you this very confidential knowledge and wisdom, upon knowing which you will be released from the miseries of material existence.
O Lord Indra! You are non-violent. You come to us. You accept Havi. You are rich. You also make us rich with your donations. We worship Lord Indra to get the same affection as adityas. (2)
The goldman is like the dead. (16)
Hey Aditya! I am caught in the trap of violent people like people catch a thief. Hey Aditi! You rescue us. 
O Indra! Just as the extent of the forgetfulness is undecided, so your importance cannot be known. You are the lord of the heavens of the visible gods. It is true that you have filled the middle part of the earth and the sky by your own importance, so there is no one else like you. 
O eldest Indra! Give that money to my junior. You are richer than ever and are called to every yagna. 
O the mighty, the mighty, the one with a thousand defenses and the richer Indra! You come close to us. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to Duloka. 
Whoever performs havan with the order of such a learned fast, his agni home is successful and there is no fault of this. The ashram of that householder of this world is safe. (7)
 The suns appear dynamic, but are stationary. They are agni forms. We worship them. Their rays illuminate the whole heaven and adorn them. 
O Rudra Dev! Don't destroy our sons. Don't destroy our grandsons. Don't destroy our age. Don't destroy our cows. Don't destroy our horses. Don't destroy our heroes. Don't destroy our women. We are all calling upon you. (16)
Rich and successful agni provide a successful food to the hosts. Come to us very often with the latest gracious foods of these agnis. 
O agni! Defeat the armies of the enemies with our armies. The army I'm in the middle of, you protect it. 
I can burn the earth or any other place with my speed. I've been to sompan several times. 
O agni! You protect us. We do a compliment. You protect us. We worship with two prayers. You protect us. We worship you with three prayers. You protect us. We worship you with four prayers. You protect us. (43)
 Indra's mother is a great force seeker. They are willing to do the best. They want heroic wealth from Indra. She serves the appeared Indra. 
Hey, Lord! You divided a spoon into four parts and covered the unskinned cow with leather with your skill. That is what is found in you immortality. O Vajgan and Rybhuo! This work of yours is worth praising. 
 O Indra! O agni! The cities of slaves and their wives were destroyed by shivering from one act 
O divine and sobhan, the fallen mon! You look down at the bottom and go towards Dronakalash, dropping your currents through the yajna karma. You get the sun's brightness while doing the word. 
Through the powerful Indra Yajna, all know the truth about human beings. That is why hosts who desire food perform enough yajna. The havya given for Indra gives sons, servants, etc. to the host, with the help of which he hinders the enemies and worships Indra. Hosts who perform yajnakarma receive Indraloka. Thus they reside only among the gods. 
May Usha Devi and Ratri Devi be blessed to increase their age and prosperity. We worship them in anushupapa verses. The goddesses established the force of power in Indra Dev. May God give us money. That was it! Please perform yajna for them. (37)
It is located on the Dyau Vaishnavar agni. As far as the earth and sky are, agni god can obstruct. Stota originated from the sixth part of the day. They come from that sixth part. (6)
O host! You call your wife and all the sons to this vessel. Those children should come here knowing their navel (center). (40)
O Brahmanaspati! Get up and make the gods know about my sacrifices. Increase the life, soul, people, animals and fame of this host. You increase this host. (1)
O God of agni who fulfills desires! You get all kinds of money. You are ignited in the yagyavedi. You give us money. (4)
Our house should become a place of water and an investment of the ocean. Our houses should be in the middle of deep ponds. O agni! Turn your flame-like face away from us. (2)
Vishwakarmas who follow us, create and produce us and are the producers of the world and know the brightness of the gods and all the bhuvanas. Those who are the only gods to name, all beings want to know about them. 
as described by Rigveda and Samaveda, Two bullocks in the form of Sun and Moon were pulling Surya's cart. O Surya! Your ears were the wheels of the cart and the sky was the path of that chariot. 
They go to the kalash like a horse walking in a war, like a horse walking in a war, he goes to the kalash as if he goes to the kalash, who is undeserving of money to the sacrificor, the one who gives money to the yajnakarta and others. 
Hey Ritvijo! The meritorious agni hosts are the regulators of yagnas and somas, the givers of karmaphal and great wealth. You serve those agnis. 
The spirit of the gods and the garbharup of Bhuvana move according to the desire of the air. The air whose word is heard, not seen, I worship it through Havya. 
Hey friend and Varun! You exert strength every day. You strengthen the advanced territory of space like a pillar. The constellations and the entire gods strengthened by you, satisfied with the desire of human beings, pervad the earth and the sky. 
 O agni! You come. We are reciting mantras for you with pure speech. You listen to them. Be prosperous with Somers. 
Those who wish for Indra enhance the beauty of the yajna. (4)
O you who conquer the enemy, Indra and Agni! You come to drink somras with the gods who come in the morning. 
O aschinikumaro! Come from heaven and give to the host of the human being and be yourself on top of the mountain, the place that you occupy among the great medicines and people. 
He received the rise. He became great and Mahadev. (4)
 Divine agnis fill the sky. She takes Indra to the yajna place at a fast pace. Then the Brahmins praise him. 
 O Mon! The hosts who refine you wisely enjoy their desire. Cows irrigate somers with their milk. He reaches the pitcher playing 
O great Agni deva! Your yajna and the human beings who do it are the best. There is no one better than them. You come with the marudganas. 
The enemy who condemns those who do not condemn us and the enemy who condemns us who condemn us, should be destroyed in the same way as a tree struck by lightning dries up from the root. (1)
 O Indra! You are going to do hundreds of deeds. The singers sing your qualities. Invoke you with mantras. A ritvik named Brahma worships you by maintaining the same tone, just as the nuts on the bamboo themselves. 
O glorious God! Do not disturb the money that everyone's favorite Saraswati and dankushal devapatis give us in this yagna. May the god of happiness and motion protect us and the air that goes all over should give us rain water. 
Fire conquers truth. They are the best dhams. Medicines are nymphs of Gandharva. They infuse mod (happiness) in everyone. Let agni be the protector of these Brahmins and Kashmiris. These sacrifices are dedicated to them. Dedicated to them affectionately. Swaha for them. (38)
Those who honor this nectar of wisdom declared here, have faith in me, and are devoted and intent on me as the supreme goal, they are exceedingly dear to me.
 O praisers! Agni is the one who holds the glory of the wise. Vidhata etc. are going to call the gods. You recite great and ancient hymns for them. 
Jupiter should become the protector of the praiser, making the blessings of the nutritious causes of food true. O earth! You listen to the pronunciation of agni-related verses. All the wars that are there, all of them should end by your grace. (11)
The sky and earth are located in Rohith named Vasujit, Gojit and Sadhanajit. I describe his thousand appearances and consider him as the center of the glory of the people. (37)
The ten horses that walk in front of that horse carry me. Similarly, Tughur's son Bhujyu was carried by horses. 
In this world, those desiring success in material activities worship the celestial gods, since material rewards manifest quickly.
Hota performs yagna for Indra Dev and associate gods. Indra Dev is divine, successful, poet and life-holder. The host worships them with jagati verses. They worship him with sense power: Accept Indra Dev's havi with prayaj. The host should perform yajna for them. (30)
I release the girl from the father's family, not from the husband's clan. I tie it up well with my husband's house. Oh, this desireful Indra! May it be a son of good fortune and good fortune. 
Those who originated i.e. early stage tuberculosis i.e. TB disease, which are advanced tuberculosis and those who are medically treatable tuberculosis diseases with distress, all these bad name diseases are destroyed by the century gem. (3)
O Indra with advanced and anti-hostile force! Sit on the chariot to kill the vritra and hold a thunderbolt in your right hand. O Lord of vast wealth Indra! You end the maya of the asuras. 
O Adityas who donating shobhan! Due to your defenses, we will enjoy many pleasures at this time as before. 
 O hosts! Indra holds a thunderbolt in his hand. They are progressive. They are sitting on the chariot. They are going to scare the enemy with their beards and wipes and provide wealth to the worshipers. 
The deserts vibrate the mountains well and separate the trees from one another, O Gods! Just as people with votes go everywhere voluntarily. In the same way you also go everywhere with the people. 
Acharya gave birth to both the sky and the earth at that moment. Both of these are detailed and serious. The earth is wide and the sky is grim. Brahmachari discusses both with his tenacity. All the gods are pleased with that brahmachari. (8)
Indra appears in autumn objects and disturbs the enemies again and again. Human beings know the power of Indra. O Indra! Rule over the people of death who do not worship you and increase these waters and the earth. (2)
O very visible and praiseworthy Indra! At this time we ask you for money. You are about to defeat the armies of all our enemies. 
Whoever dwells, walks, or sees us in our land, we break his eyes. He becomes as quiet and quiet as home. 
O agni! Atharva Rishi revealed you with Arani Manthan. You are a great and world-bearer. (22)
The revolutionaries, home guards, young, human beings and Juhumukha deities are ignited by fire. 
O fever that makes life miserable! You are, however, a heat factor and dry. Though you were born out of agni, O radiant fever! You are going to produce yellow color in the human body. That is why you are famous by the name Hudh. You know our hot water-soaked body as your birth place agni and get out of our body. (2)
Along with Brahmins, Prajapati separates som-like milk from the juice of filtered food and drinks it. They get the truth from the right. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk, nectar and sweet substances. (75)
O priest! You are brilliant, poet and charioteer. We worship you with the best intellect. You should engage yourself in performing yajna with the best intellect, you worship the air with the best intellect. (55)
They live in their own home. Their songs can be happily dupped. They increase the rain water and feed on the food produced from it. He is illuminated to give wealth to the host by becoming powerful in the middle of the water. 
Just as the form of the girl becomes visible when purified by the mother from bathing etc., similarly you also publish your body to show everyone. O welfare-doer Usha! Remove darkness. Other ushaas will not permeate your work. 
 O Mon! Please receive Vayu, Mitra and Varuna after praise. You reach the leadership, the wise and the Ashchini Kumars riding on the chariot. You get Vajrabahu Indra. 
Oh, God! A person who hates us and does not praise the gods while doing karma on the yajnavedi, let him end up being hinsed by Varuna. Aryama keep us separate from the demons of malice. O dear friend and Varun! Give me the giver a detailed space to you. 
O sobhan-karma wale mon! We choose your wealth. Give money to our sons. O protector of all and admired by many, Mon! We serve you. 
O agni! I wish for money and give you speed and strength with samidha and ghee. As long as I can worship you with praises, give me money and make this praise of mine unique to infinite wealth. 
I serve the desireful rudras. They come in front of us several times. The great sin that the deserts are angry with, that sin will be destroyed by our hymns. 
Be our protectors with the help of Indra Marutas, protectors of five kinds of people like Vajradhari, Asurhanta, Bhayahetu, Tejaswi, Omniscient, Characters of Great Praises, Bhasman, Somras. 
O son of strength Indra! People who speak the words of desire take your help. No god can be greater than you. 
The king who eats the substances of the Brahmin drinks poison and loses his kshatra tej. Just as the agni god filled with anger destroys everything, so the king who considers the brahmin's substances edible is destroyed. (4)
This wonderful friend and Varun! We should not consume anyone's holy wealth. By your grace, let us not bring ourselves and our sons and grandsons to the wealth of others. 
The Supreme Personality of Godhead created water first. After that the earth was created. This earth was formed from the juice of water. Tvashta Dev takes the form of the world. Tvashta Dev gives divinity and immortality to human beings. (17)
O agni! Destroy your enemies especially and increase our food. May we be happy for a hundred years, including shobhan children. 
May saraswati, the holy one, the strange-looking, the strange-moving and the heroic wife, complete our yajna-roop karma. He pleased with the devas and wives and give the hymn a house and happiness, free from faultless and without the speed of cold and wind. 
The latest agnis originate in a place and live in ancient trees. The white-colored and smoke-washed agni live in the forest. Fires that remain pure without bathing go to water like bulls. Human beings are united and please the agni. 
Like the one who performs fire sacrifices with inexhaustible effulgence, the ornaments of the house of yajna, like a wife sitting in the house, bright like the sun when it shines with a strange brilliance, are as brilliant as a golden chariot among the subjects and are effective in battle. 
O Shur and Vajradhari Indra! Just as rivers raise the ocean with water, so do the hymns increase you. You're going to grow by hymns. 
Atharva established the uniformity of the heart and the heart.
Everyone's inspiring sun has added the seven horses that pulled the chariot to his chariot. The sun runs only through those horses attached to the chariot. 
The herbs that originated from the gods in three ages in ancient times, I believe that those yellow-colored herbs are located in one hundred and seven places. 
O goddess named Permission! You allow us and make us happy. You come forward and accept our havi put in advance. O God! Protect our people in the form of sons, grandsons etc. (2)
O agni with wealth! The man who performs the yajna becomes full of truth. It is worthy of praise and is consumable by hymns. 
Urvashi said, "At the time of Pururva's birth, the devapatis also gathered to see and the rivers that flowed on themselves also extended him as a dependent. The gods have greatly increased you to make enemies in battle." 
O Indra! Just as a cow is fat without marriage, in the same way, by your grace, increase the water and get your stota water. Just as the wind goes to the horses, so come to us. You give food through sacrifice. 
O karyaks Som and Pusha! You are the reflectors of the world, the seven-wheeled, inseparable by the world, moving everywhere, moving at will and driving the chariots of the five rashmis towards us. 
O Indra! Let us not go to your enemies to beg. O indra, the cows and the giver enough! Let's go to you. 
The ancestors are seated in the red sun. You save money for us. Give opulence to human beings, give glory to fathers and sons. Hold energy. (63)
The sun follows the luminous Usha in the same way as a man follows a woman. At the same time, people expand the work with the desire to perform surya related yagya. We praise the sun to get welfare. 
It is heard that Indra is the conqueror and destroyer of the enemies. It takes away the cows while killing the enemies by war. When Indra really takes on anger, then all the real and movable is scared. 
May the good wisdom of the Gods be beneficial for us. May the simplicity of the gods be beneficial for us. May the donation of devgans be favorable for us. May we get the friendship of the Devgans. Let us benefit from that friendship. May we live long life from the gods. (15)
Whether the gambler is quick or late in gambling, I will win from him in gambling. The gambler who does not stop gambling even after losing with the hope that I will win, the money of such gamblers will come to me from all sides. Let the gambling dice remain in my own hands. (2)
O Indra! You receive growth from praise. We choose your power, which is going to conquer the enemy's wealth and protect us. (6)
The north direction is full of subjects. May this best direction give us superiority. The line appears as verse odan. May we also receive earth and heaven with all our organs. (10)
O agni! Burn the demons through your unbeatable swiftness and become the protectors of wealth and become the brightholders. 
These hosts are worshiping you with brahmagyanic verses. Offerings are made. Be happy with them. Barun Dev is highly acclaimed and Dev Pujat. You wake up and don't underestimate our age. (2)
Has Indra given this money to my husband, Saubhiri? Has Shobhan Dhanwali Saraswati given me property? O king picture! What is this money only given to you? 
From the cloud from which water rains, the deery drop appeared with the thunder of electricity, from them the darbha has been born. (5)
The sun is capable of creating the world. This sun fills the three worlds of the middle world, earth and space world with its light. They keep the whole world in their shelter. They hold all the water. They are sensible. They know all the emotions of the past and the post. (59)
This morning is worth knowing aschinikumaro! Let the divine water flow for us through the hole of the clouds and for us the streams. 
O Indra! Just as drunk alcohol leads to war by taking on conflicting feelings in the making, so does the drunk Som also fight in the heart. Stota Somapurna protects Indra like a cow's trunk. 
 O Mon! You are a poet. You are refined to the gods. You are going to compete with all enemies. 
The beautiful-handed Rishi is going to hold heaven. Air and cloud make great words. May water and vegetation increase our praises. May the god and the sun give money come in our yajna. 
O fire! You are ignited in our wealthy houses. After this, you, being a workman and a daint, giving up the breath of flame, giving up the fickle intellect like children and get up in the war, protecting us from enemies again and again, like armor. 
The agnis prominent among the gods and the best of the scholars are ignited in the houses of the yagnakartas. This stotao! Praise the agni of the holy light and the one who sleeps in the yajnashala. 
Jupiter, while watering the earth from all sides with water, dropped the cloud, a group of water, down from the sky in the same way as the sun drops a meteor from the sky. Just as water makes the earth soft, jupiter god steals the cows kept in the mountains by stealing them through the wives and digs the earth with their hooves. (4)
I hit Atk with many weapons to give him a happy life for the sage Ushna. I protected the dogs with many defence means. I picked up the thunderbolt to kill the Shushna Asura. I didn't call the bandits 'Arya'. 
O the rain-watering teachers of Mon! Offer a havya to increase the power of the rainy maruts. Through this havan, the deserts become rain-fed and have good speed. 
O agni! All the people are your abode. You are the shelter of all the worlds. Your superior form is present in the heart of the sea. May we find your sweet wavy form. (99)
O pregnant woman from destructive demons called Tangalva with a nose like a thunderbolt and asuras called naked! May yellow mustard protect your children and your husband and adapt to them. (21)
"The rabbit inspired by me grabs the lion, etc., that swoops on it. I throw a lump of mud from a distance and break the mountain. I subdue the big to the small. Because of me, the little calf is powerful and goes to fight the bull." 
O wealth is strong! We describe your semen. When Indra is mad, you protect him. You are the doers of service in armies. Stay in the shelter of the rivers and become the means of bathing for all while providing food. (3)
 Som is holy. Priests clean the soma and decorate it with prayers in the same way as horses are decorated to take it to war. 
I am the god of Amavasya. The devayagyas with shobhan karma reside in me due to merit. Both Indra adi dev called Sadhya and Siddha meet me. (2)
O yajnavardhanakar Ashwinikumaro! The somras placed in front of you is very sweet and squeezed only yesterday. Drink it and give the pleasant money to the husband's host. 
O Indra Dev! You compete with all enemies. You crush the wicked. You produce happiness. (66)
O Yama! You sat on this seat of Kush as a mother like the ancestors named Angira. May the mantras of maharishis be able to call you. Be happy to get the havi. (60)
Som speaks the words in the firm place of space, pleasing the water-pouring cloud. 
The wise people know that where the world and the treasury reside and where water and Brahman are located, where both true and false substances are located, tell us about that God, who is He? (10)
The gods who created the world first came to earth. After that, there were early Gandharvas on earth. The earth is in the third order of water growing in spinach medicines, the first protector holds the womb of all water in various forms. (32)
Saraswati river has flowed and generated huge water bodies. At the same time, she has also awakened knowledge among the people who perform yajna. 
That is why scholars consider this man to be Brahman. Just as cows live in gaushalas, so all gods reside in this body of man. (32)
O very strong Indra! Come here to drink sweet somers. Indra, who has dhanvan and shobhan yajnakarma, does not listen to hymns and mantras without coming. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Drink this somras and be happy and destroy our near and distant enemies. O Indra! Destroy the enemy soldiers who come before us and lay down their weapons again and again, away from us. 
The devas who come from a distant land and establish friendship with human beings, who are pleased with the human beings, who possess the man born of the God Vaivasvata Manu and who sit in the yagna of The God Nahushputra Yayati Rajarshi, may worship us by giving us money, etc. 
My divine energy Maya, consisting of the three modes of nature, is very difficult to overcome. But those who surrender unto me cross over it easily.
O Som and Rudra! You give us the same power as the asuras. May our yajna completely permeate you in each house. O you who wear seven gems! Be the benefactor to two-legged humans and four-legged animals besides us. 
O Indra! You take our heroes along and fight our enemies. Let us win this battle with your power and become successful. We should also have the same force as the arms with which you fight with the big ones. (5)
The desire-filled and deathless Som is known to be the one who produces words and destroys darkness with his light. The mons, acclaimed by the wise, are mixed in cow's milk-curd. The yajnakarma is held by Som in all the three saavanas. 
 O Indra! We cover your heartlands with armor. Please King Som to make you nectar. Varuna, please give you happiness. May the gods give you happiness. 
On the earth on which the sages who created the creatures worshiped God with brahma yoga and praise with sapta sutras. (39)
Fires are able to give more nectar. They can give the best semen money. O agni! We did not sit childless, unformed and without service. 
While moving in the inter-compatible Dyava-Prithvivi, the most prominent form is born of Aditya and who possesses sanskrit agni from the praises, the ineffective, the hasty and the bright Vaishvanar, stand before all the people. 
 O agni! You are a mystic. With the mantras composed by Brahmins, we invoke you in the yagna. You are the one who is omnipresent and has high flames. We protect you to protect ourselves. 
The enemies who want to do violence to others, who come from the direction of the earth and worship me at night, they should get the capable Prajapati in breeding for their destruction. (9)
O herb called guarpatha! Garuda with beautiful wings had discovered and got you to remove poison. Adi Varah dug you up with his snout. Defeat the opponents who ask me questions. O medicine! Dry the throats of my opposing speakers so that they cannot speak. (2)
Hey Mon! After drinking, be the comforters of the heart in the same way that the Father brings happiness to the Son. Be the giver of happiness in this way, just as a friend gives happiness to a friend. O Dhir Som, admired by many people! Raise our lifespan for life. 
The Soma whom Suparna, son of the fast-paced Sheen, was brought from a distant country, is useful in hundreds of works and will increase the enthusiasm of the vritra. 
The host called by the Ritvijs is the most prominent and walks forward as the head of the village. The one who gives dakshina first, that is what we consider to be the guardian of human beings. 
Hey Mon! You drop the stream of som with the same velocity as your mind in the characters. The way the clouds rain. You increase the earthly and divine wealth. 
The gods who destroyed the demons to protect divinity, may Indra protect our bodies, including the Adityas and maruts. (5)
O Indra! You are called by human beings in all four directions. You completely destroy enemies. You come to this host's yagna. (1)
Those whose thunderbolts make the enemies cry a lot, who are the givers of Shobhan Udak, as bright as the sun, roaring-worders and engaged in the work of folklore, those who serve the charity of wealth and wealth, be our protectors with the help of indra maruts. 
Protect us from the obstacles of the sun, from the obstacles of air space and from the obstacles of the agni earth. 
O God! Our enemies have proved their mantra-filled armor at the time of action called Tanupan and Magnitude. You make the mantras related to these deeds unsuccessful. (17)
O agni! You call the gods to eat. May Indra Adi Dev be pleased in this yajna. Give this yajna to the gods in heaven and make us safe with your means of welfare. 
Elevate yourself through the power of your mind, and not degrade yourself, for the mind can be the friend and also the enemy of the self.
O Indra! You are the most important of virtues, because you received water as soon as the fear of the asura arose and possessed the earth and the sky by your hostile force. All the creatures, mountains and other great and strong substances in the world tremble with your fear in the same way as the sun's rays tremble in the sky. 
O agni! Vasishtaputra initiates rituals in the yagnas and praises you and provides you with food. Keep more food in the houses of the hosts and protect us forever by means of welfare. 
O agni! You are the creator of yajna, the best thinker. You give great wealth to the host. Make him lucky and greatly glorious. You possess material and spiritual splendor for us. (110)
O divine medicines like mother! I say to your relative's physician like this: "O doctor! I can give you a horse, a cow, a garment and myself." 
O Indra! The mighty deserts were with you, yet you alone killed the thief and the rich warrior with a stern whammy. His attendants, who resisted the sacrifice, went with the thought of killing you, but they received death from your bow. 
O god of yajnapatra! You are the leader of the yajna, the one who dwells in the yajnashala of pure power, the invincible, the visionary, the leader and the great. I bow before you with a word of greeting. 
Yajna increases our age. May yajna increase our lives. Yajna will increase our eyesight. Yajna increases our hearing power. Yajna increases our back. May our yajna expand with yajna. Let us be Prajapati's subjects. May we find divinity in ourselves. Let us find immortality. (21)
Hey Mon! You are the most joyful, the most glorious and the desire for the streams that leave in our yajna. You fall down giving money to the Psalms. 
Indra is the lord of heaven, earth, water, mountains, elders and the wise. Indra is called for yoga and khem. 
O agni! When you hear the praise, come to our yajna quickly and give us the best money. We host and stota together praise you. You make us victorious in wars. 
He who eats before the guest eats the children and animals of his house. (4)
Hey both Ashwini Kumar! Please come to the yajna site and pray. May you please give us happiness. Protect us with your own defense tools and give us happiness. (28)
O Vishnu! May you have mercy on us who are undeserved and blameless to all. Please be kind that you may receive riches well, containing many horses and pleasing to many. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Protect us at the time when the yellow somalaya is squeezed like a cow's trunk and those who love the gods praise us. 
The Angiragotrian scholarly sages roamed around and received the gorupi wealth hidden in the cave by the pangs. They saw the maya of the asuras and entered the place from where they had left. 
O Indra! For you, this somarus has been squeezed with the help of stones and the milk of the cow is being mixed and made home in the yagna for your happiness. 
Hey Varun, friend and Aryama! We ask you for the same protection by which you annihilate human beings and save them from enemies. 
The callable agnis covering the altar-like land are wide in the forenoon. Agni is superior, richer and gives happiness to the earth than other lights. (4)
With this yajna, grace to be Anshugraha, Rashmigraha, Adaabhyagraha, Upanshugraha, Antriyam, Indra Dev and Vayu, Mitra Dev and Varun Dev, Ashwingraha and Pratisthangraha. Please be the deva of Venus with this yajna. Please be the master of manthigraha from this yajna. May this yajna be all-fruitful for us. (19)
That knowledge is to be considered in the mode of passion by which one sees the manifold living entities in diverse bodies as individual and unconnected.
O aschinikumaro! Come up with the measures by which you both protected Krishnanu in battle, saved the running horse of the young purukuts, and provided the bees with the best-loved honey. 
O savoured Mon! You pour out juice for the gods of divine birth and Indra named Shobhan. You are with sweet juices and unbeatable by others. Shower juices for you friend, Varuna, Vayu and Jupiter. 
 O seekers! There is a horse named Indra Hari. They are somers drinkers. You sing these prayers that please Indra. 
This stotao! You, through your new praises, establish the pre-originated, the parenthood and the place of yajna, the dyava-prithvivi at the forefront. This is the earth! Come to us with the gods to give you your great and best wealth. 
O Indra! Your fame easily spreads all over. You are happy and give us songs. You give us the best money. (4)
While being purified, intoxicating, intoxicating, serving by Indra and aiming at the praises and havyas of the psalms, the Soma dashapavitra is crossed and formed as its stream. 
O Indra of a hundred yagnas! You removed the large holes of the chariot, the middle hole of the car and the gambling hole and made the skin of the doll look like the sun. 
Som Raja is the head of the cow, the upper chin and the earth is the upper part of the chin. (2)
The Vedas were his bed and Brahman was his garment. (7)
These different ignited agnis look like the flags of the Ushas. 
 O sun! You give us money with sons and grandsons. Poverty is as painful as a nightmare. You remove it. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Give us wealth with cows, horses, shobhanputras, beautiful chariots and food. 
Indra, who gives money to the host who gives the havan, soon becomes the god of the whole world. 
 O agni! You make us Goans and Horses. You give us a lot of money. The sky is holy by the glory of you. You remove the vices. 
Brahmachari holds samidha in agni, in sun, in moon, in air and in water. The rays of agni etc. travel differently in space i.e. sky. Those rays produce hatred in cows, children in men and women, and water in rain. (13)
 Just as cows lick calves, water is found in someras. They do not revolt in any way. They join Someras, who loves Indra. 
O agni! You are omniscient. You love vasus. You lovingly carry the agni and sanctify the food. You are detainable. (3)
We rishis have praised the agni that gives good pleasure to human beings, benefactors of all human beings and protectable by Som. We call upon the detestable Dyava-Prithvi. Oh, God! You give us rich children's money. 
O patient man! May all the herbs that goats or sheep graze, all the herbs brought by me, which are eaten by cows unworthy of violence. (25)
O Indra! We have prepared som. You sit on these laid-down axes and drink someras. (7)
We set you up sixteen arts from Bale Stom. Sixteen arts. Bale Stom Oz is completely wealthy. We set you up from forty-four powers Bale Stom. Fire is full- blown. All the gods praise this perfection of them. We offer you slow sacrifices. You sit down and please provide money to your people. (3)
The one who follows the shataudana cow fulfills his wishes. All the satisfied Ritwijas go where they come from. (4)
From the same yajna, horses were born, which had teeth on both sides of their mouths, up and down. From him were born cows, goats and sheep. 
Just as Havi increases the agni, so the wealth of the enemies carried by the chariot increases this king. The king's arms and armor remain on the chariot. Happy, let us go to that chariot always. 
This is our devotion to the Presiding Deity of the Sky. (3)
O agni! We are able to keep you here until the end of the yajna. Thus we will get rid of sins. 
O men! The one who gives wealth to the affluent person, who gives wealth to the saint while praying, who protects the host with Shobhan Hanu, who holds a stone in his hand and squeezes soma, is Indra. 
O men! You reach heaven without sorrow through the agni ignited for the sake of yajna. By reaching heaven like the back of space, you attain opulence like gods and live there. (2)
How do we increase our praise to Indra? What would Indra be pleased to go to the yagna? The great Indra, while drinking somras and craving for food, wears bright gold etc. to give to which host? 
O Indra with deaf and hearing-free ears! We call you from afar for the sake of protection in the yajna. 
O Arati! Do not block our speech and devotion. May Indra and Agni give us wealth and they should not be compatible with our enemies at this time. (6)
O men! Moreover, offer the legislative and beautiful mantras to Indra in the sacrificial gods. The person who attracts Indra's mind with his karma, does not bind many loops to him. 
O aschinikumaro! This ancient place of yajnavedi is your home. O Ashwinikumaro! This house and place of residence is yours. You bring us water from the spacechary cloud. 
May the deserted gods equip me with the host who wants fruit with the people and wealth in the form of a son etc. Agni make my student's life long. (1)
Spring and other seasons did not arise at the time of creation. Dhata, Jupiter, Indra, Agni and two Ashwinikumaras were also not born at that time. Those gods were worshiping their father Brahma. (5)
 O Mon! Enemies are destroyed by fearing you. You are going to conquer thousands of enemies. We praise the holy Soma. 
O agni! The havan-giver host whom you are inspired to give money in the yagna becomes a cow-lover protected by you. 
 Indra and Agni take Havi to heaven with their flame. After that, everyone makes Indra and Agni nutritious. 
Hey, Lord! In exchange for our praise, you make known all the things of human good consumption. Produce for us a rich, powerful, power-generating, and sacrificing food for the destruction of enemies. 
O Indra! Just as a man fulfills his wife's desire, so do the will of the yagyakars, for you are the giver like the sun. O many forming Indra! Make the ancient praises that speak for you with the host, wise. 
O soul! You go upwards and stay awake in living beings due to sleep. The sleeping creature becomes sleeping. Therefore, you should be awake to protect him. No one has heard that a man's life has also fallen asleep when he is under control of sleep. (25)
O godmen! You attain the best heaven. Don't be afraid of you. Mantra Darshi Rishis themselves have drunk Someras and made others drink Someras. This blessing has been done for you in heaven. From this you get a life of eternal life. (64)
On the occasion of Yami-Yama, the host should sacrifice day and night. The brightness of the lighting sun rises every day on its behalf. The way heaven and earth are intertwined. In the same way, I will separate from its brotherhood and meet it. (10)
These stomata praise Indra after drinking Someras. This somerus leads to these psalms with its own defense power. (2)
O the best agni! Just as the Father gives the son, the brother to the brother, and the friend the desired things, so also give me the things you want. 
O agni! Give me permanent land to provide a cow suited to my deeds. My son is going to expand the offspring. Have your best wisdom towards me. 
O devi! You are foolish. We offer you ghee-filled havi in the yagna of the gods. You hold a place among the best goddesses of the earth. You accept this ghee Bali sacrifice. You are rich. You nurture us with your money. Don't deprive us of your money. We are your brothers. (22)
Tell us of the God on whose basis the land, the sky, and the heavens rest, and the God in whom the agni, the moon, the sun, and the air are offered, who is He? (12)
Fire prayers are worthy of happiness. Som is immortal. Please take strength and age for us with anushtup verses and the five sense cows. (14)
O agni! You, giving us indestructible and incremental wealth for our welfare, spread the light and make the sky a fruit-giver for us. You take the havya given by my host to the devouring of the gods. 
You consume self-acquired tenacity force purodash. You are the one who angers the enemies, the guardian of the household religion, the sportsman, the strong and the victorious. (85)
O God of Agni! You are the destroyer of opponents, that is why you give me the power to destroy opponents. This havi is well done havan. (2)
 The host mixes cow's milk together in Someras. The gods enjoy Someras. The hosts add cow's ghee and honey to this somerasa. Som, who lives in the water of the river, is purified with gold and brightened. 
This is the bahi agni, which Indra Dev in the form of Soma fills in his gastrointestinal agni. It's a thousand times. It is annamaya, strong and omniscient. They are praised by thousands. (47)
May they give us great happiness. By whose deeds the earth bends repeatedly, animals with hooves are reared and the herbs take on a different form. 
Those who are free from vanity and delusion, who have overcome the evil of attachment, who dwell constantly in the self and God, who are freed from the desire to enjoy the senses, and are beyond the dualities of pleasure and pain, such liberated personalities attain my eternal abode.
In front of the Devas, the chief God tied the nectar of gold. I greet him ten times. May that deity order me to ask for this trivrat. (11)
Of the transient there is no endurance, and of the eternal there is no cessation. This has verily been observed by the seers of the truth, after studying the nature of both.
One who knows this is the beloved abode of Sama, Yaju, Richa and Brahman. (9)
O shunrushakata, those who walk by the chariot, the vrithrahanta and the undefeated Indra and the agni! Know my praises. 
The heavenly water comes to him like a sarita who does not stop at him, he receives cows before all the servants and destroys the enemies with his undeserved force, which the Brahmanaspati accepts as a friend. 
I make the desireful, especially the sacrificial, and the strange-moving maruts kind to the new wealth that is well received. 
Let the deserts, which are everywhere, which inspire the rain and carry the water, come to us today. O young man and young man, Maruto! Be pleased with this ignited agni to you guys. 
Hey Mon! When you hunker like a carrying horse and are called to the place of yajna by the psalms to hear the praises, you are in the water. 
O all seeable, with thousands of paths, who guides the hosts and the special seer Som! You pour your rainy and intoxicating juice for Indra. 
 O hosts! You must worship Indra. You sing prayers for them. Indra is the eldest of the gods. You bow down to them along with your sons. 
Sindhu was inspired by the world towards Dwilaoka. The wise saw the sun in Rathantar. He told three samidhas of Gayatri Yagya. After this, he got growth from his importance. (3)
We know the more wealthy wisdom of this heroic Indra. We know Indra born in all the three realms. 
Oh, Usha! As soon as you start moving, the learned people become adopted in the donation of money etc. The ultimate meritorious Kanva rishi pronounces the names of these granular people in the Ushaal. 
O sages! You come near the agni. Please ignite them and show the path of the gods. Our fathers again made you Yuba. The ancestors again expanded you in the yagyas. (53)
I call in this yajna the beloved, madhujihava, the human-editor and the fire admired by human beings. 
You are happy and permanent. You are protecting like armor. Both of you are well-wishers. You are bright, sustenance and increase agni. (30)
Hey, Ritwiz! Praise Indra for his pleasure, who is the protector of wealth,the one who fulfills beautiful works and the friend of the host. 
O agni! Give us this money. Let us get a son who performs yajnakarma and has good knowledge. All the money went to the psalms and the singers. You always protect us by means of welfare. 
I pray for my protection from the same praiseworthy Indra and Agni, for whom the sammantras with Gayatri verses are spoken. 
O wise, lord of all wealth and the gods who give abodes! If you give a house to the host who gives havi and who goes towards the yajna for the purpose of your coming to this yajna, then we will worship you in the same welfare house of yours. 
There is no one who can remain without action even for a moment. Indeed, all beings are compelled to act by their qualities born of material nature (the three guṇas).
O Indra and Varuna! Let us give the hymns the money secured and protected by the gods. Let our force quickly despise the successes of the enemies by defeating and defending them in wars. 
O men! We quickly describe the beautiful horses of Shur Indra. They know the gods. They carry Indra as six as seasons and five ass when Hemanta, Shishir, became one. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
You are the publisher and strong of Mon. May our opulence also become like your opulence. Please protect us from death. Let us become as immortal as you. (15)
Those who know this, those who wear bows, i.e. Mahadev, Sharva, Ishan, are favorable to him. (2)
Oh, this desireful Indra! For the enemies of the evil people who hate friends, Ariyama, Marudgana and Varuna, you must intensify your dynamic, workman and glorious thunderbolt. 
I recognize you as the supreme imperishable being, the ultimate truth to be known by the scriptures. You are the support of all creation; you are the eternal protector of sanātan dharma (the eternal religion); and you are the everlasting Supreme Divine Personality.
O agni! The people of The Rusham country had adorned me with ornaments, robes and gave me thousands of cows. At the end of the night, that is, in the morning, the squeezed somers pleased Indra. 
O agni! We offer you the best sacrifices. Knights become dear to you. You are kind to those who are rich and energetic. Godhan etc. are kind to them. (14)
O man suffering from tuberculosis! I take tuberculosis out from your eyes, from the anus, from the large intestine, from the stomach, from both wombs, from the rectum with many holes and from the navel. (4)
 O Mon! Our mind becomes happy with Someras. You give strength to our happy mind. Please make it active. You give us beneficial power. Make the best. You inspire us to be friends. Let us have the same feeling with you as a cow gets from grass. 
O arrow! Let your poison-quenched fruit become poison-free. After this, your poison becomes ineffective. The bow made of immaterial tree and related to you should also become ineffective. (6)
O Indra! Be happy to drink our squeezed sarus and somras. O Indra worthy of being pleased with us! You grow to upgrade us as our friend. Please protect us. 
This is dedicated to the Presiding Deity of the earth. (2)
O king in a distant country! Come to your state soon from a distant country. At the time of entering your kingdom, both the earth and the sky should be auspicious for you. Varun is calling you. You come to your nation. (5)
O Indra and Agni who have illuminated heaven! Be you embodied everywhere in wars. The power of both of you gives you the knowledge of the victory of war. 
O Indra! The person whom these enemies have made their priest in the yagna for our misery should be degeneration. I am throwing him near death. (5)
What did Indra do by being pleased with Somras, drinking Somras and being friendly with it? O Indra! What did the ancient and new stos find from you in the yajnashala? 
Those enemies who are willing to violence others, they should come from the north direction and do violence to me who worship the night, they should get Vishwakarma, who gets the support of the Sapta Rishis, for his destruction. (7)
O one who fights, worksmanship, wealthy, samarth, nitya-tarun, enemy-beeperifiable jarahin, vajradhari, famous in all three worlds and great Indra! Your heroic deeds are great. 
O son of power, agni! You are the master of the grain containing the majority of cows. O Jathaveda! Give us enough food. 
O Indra! You come to this yagna without anger. It is for your sake that the holy somalatha has been squeezed. The way the cows enter the goshala, the same way the somras are kept in the kalash. O Indra, the sharishta in the yagnapatras! You come here. 
The unruly and superior Som in the yagnakarma goes around from his holy stream in the same way as the horse runs. 
O God of God! In this yajna karma that produces happiness, become the inspiring god of the animal group, Aryama, and give you strength. May Vedha Dev, the creator of the whole world, give you the blessings through the shatakar. By your grace, this pregnant woman should get rid of childbirth related pain and give birth to a living child. For a happy delivery, its joint bonds should be relaxed. (1)
O Lord.o! At that time Savita gave immortality by being in your direction, at which time you came to tell savita, visible through all of you, telling her the desire of your sompan and cut the means of the sompan of the skin into four pieces. 
Vidhata has used to provide them in ancient times through the gem of udumbar i.e. sycamore for a man who desires animals, sons, wealth, body, etc. I protect you through the same udumber gem. Savita Dev, grow two-legged humans and four-legged animals in my cowshed. (1)
Indra himself reaches near the someras which is cultured anywhere near or far away. (3)
 O agni! You are prajapalak, shaktimaan and prakash. While offering sacrifices, the main characters reach your mouth. The worshippers want to please you by offering havi. Please give full glory to the hosts. 
In order to protect the people, we should come here from heaven, earth, space, water, aditya mandala, remote place or the cloud in place of water with indra maruts. 
The agni is as bright as the sun in front of Usha during the day. The ritwijs who extend the yajna read beautiful hymns. The learned, the messengers of the gods, the ones who go to the gods and the super-giving agni, all are stirred up. 
O agni! Just as our superior ancestors have attained heaven, in the same way, the fathers who sing the uths remove the darkness of the night from their glory and illuminate the ushas. (21)
O Vrithrahanta Indra! Somers are enough for your stomach. The squeezed somers are enough for your bodies. 
Salutations to the controller of those who cheat and loot. Salute to the controller of intelligence. Salutations to the nuisance controller. Salutations to the thief. Salutations to the weaponized enemy. Salutations to my husband. Salutations to the night. Salutations to Pardhan Harak. (21)
Just as five human beings have built a house for Yamraj, so I also build a house. Thus, I have many houses. (55)
O Brahmin's cow! You receive a group of weapon arrows and become the master because of its sin. (13)
O you are pure, Mon! These thirty-three gods are yours and live in heaven. Ten fingers, made of sheep's hair and as high as a mountain peak, purify you with water and the seven great rivers sanctify you. 
 O Mon! You are a green one. The host's fingers do not have malice among themselves. They cooperate with each other and squeeze your juice. Cleans you in the same way as a cow licks and cleans the newborn 
O Arvan! Your body is going to go upwards. The mind is as dynamic as the air. Your flags are roaming in the forests as wildagnis. (22)
Indra Dev, who used his violent force on the enemy, stopped the vritra that spread from all sides and destroyed the elusive enemy with his weapon. Indra killed the vritra asura by making him inferior to his arms. After this, he took possession of his means of pleasure – wife or cow etc. (3)
Jupiter, the son of Sage Angira and the minister of the gods of the gods, and Indra, have created the thunderbolt that kills the asuras with the sacrifice of hatred, O Gods! With that thunderbolt, I destroy my enemy army. Because of the destruction of the army, I should destroy my enemies with my own force. (13)
Covering the head, both hands, mouth, tongue, neck, bones and all that body with skin, the god who created it connected together. (15)
O Indra! Take away from us the malice and let us enrich the hymns. Humans praise Indra, who gives the son of Shobhan. 
O Lord of all wealth, O Gods! Today at sunrise, in the afternoon and in the evening, you hold beautiful wealth for the best-known Manu who performs havan and is the best of knowledge. 
O agni! As soon as you are born, Varuna, 
He had two summer and spring seasons and the remaining two autumn and rainy seasons. (4)
Some people said Hiranya, so. (14)
The one who has beautiful sleeves and beautiful fingers, has beautiful sons and is the birth-giver of many, who is the mother of many, give the same devotion to the purpose of the goddess of the world. 
Hey, Ritwiz! Indra does what you want. This is the hymn! Praise Indra, who praises Shobhan, and serve him with a salutation. You embellish yourself. Do not cry. Recite your praises to Indra. Indra give you a lot of money. 
I have not become rich just by desire, but I pray to the Sun God. May I continue to get this pleasure. O Ritvij! Through what knowledge and tact have you become the knower of all those born? (2)
I make your king enter the land with his wife and his people in the bed to protect the air space, that is, the land to protect it from the middle world. May that whole body give you happiness and shield i.e. protection. (2)
O Lord Indra! You are a void. Your horses are just about to walk by signs. You plough your brahmagyani horses in the chariot. Your mind is attracted to yajna by the sounds of cutting the ancient Soma with stone. O Mon! You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev. You are a master of sixteen arts. You have been cast in this character for Indra Dev. You are accepted in this character for Indra Dev with sixteen arts. (33)
 O Mon! We live happily by your followers, your sons and by your grace. We are able to do any work only with your grace and ability. 
I follow the directions east of the light. May those directions give me wealth and give Brahm tej. (38)
They start shining as soon as they rise and behind them, their revered rashimis are covered around them. (7)
Nana Rupvan Ahoratra - Both the deities walk without interruption. They are moving against each other. One comes and the other goes. In these deities who come from Baribari, one hides the substances and the others light them up through their extremely bright chariots. 
O Vachaspati! For us, the earth, vagina and bed should be happy. May life give us happiness. May we be long-lived, O God! May this Agni God make us digharyu and stunning. (17)
O Jupiter! You're benevolent. Do not give the sinners who approach you as an old bull and give them the best money they want. You must be kind to the somayager. 
I pray to get such houses in the houses where the migrating man remembers and the houses where there is a high amount of harmony. These homes of ours come from migration and know us as masters. (3)
O Indra and Brahmanaspati! May Varuna, the presiding deity of the angiras mantras of the sorrow-giving sin, protect us for the sin that causes us to behave highly condemnable in dreams for the sake of sorrow. (3)
O Indra! I hold your control. Through this control of yours, you destroy the suffering creatures with nails. In this savan, you gain people and become the knowers of money when somerasa is born. (9)
 The host who takes inspiration from holy mantras, the host who is interested in beneficial mantras, is a part of ecstasy. He eats the food that earns virtue and is a partner of immortality. 
Let the sinless ushayas that bring the day of adornment remove the darkness and be illuminated and get a wide light by the grace of the air. The angiras praising the air received godhan. The ancient waters flowed behind the angiras. 
 O Mon! You wear Devlok. You are jealous and aspirational. You are repeatedly filtered in a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
Oh, the horse! Your body is permeated and your mind is going to move as fast as the wind. The local hair of the horns that come out of your head is scattered around and flies in many ways in the beautified forests. 
O Vrithrahita Indra! Do the donations given by the hosts serve you? Do shobhan-stotras serve you while reading mantras? Who is closer to you in war? 
May indradi dev, the character of the yajna, accept our service in a sufficient way by raining down the milkable streams of water, O Gods! Today, bring your wealth to all the riches that are revered and come with equally happiness. 
Oh my friend and Varun! These are the ones that rise towards the sun diva-earth that humans see. The Sun is the sustainer of all real and moving beings and sees sin and virtue in human beings. 
O agni! The one who desires food holds the food for you, the intoxicating mon gives you a large quantity, installs you on the north altar like a revered guest and ignites you in his house with the desire to become a god, his son may be a firm believer and a special donor. 
This brilliant host should bring the great water group located in the sun system to the earth through yajna kriya. Know the praises of the Lord's host. 
O agni! You target the water in the sky and gather the lives of the united gods. You inspire the people named Rochan on top of the sun and the water that is present under the sun. 
The intoxicating and uninhibited Som along with the maruts filter for Indra. Mons with thousand streams cross the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
Oh patient! With both your eyes, nose, ears, chin, shisha, brain and tongue, I get tuberculosis out. 
The fellowship of these friendly deities is niguā and glowing. They defeat the enemies with their hidden force. O wishing friend! Our opponents tremble at your fear. Make us happy with the importance of your strength. 
The goddesses of gambling, nymphs, delight together in the land and space. May those nymphs combine both my hands with jai symptom fruit and subdue my opposing gambler. (3)
I consider Agni to be a father, a brother, a brother and a constant friend. I serve the mouth of agni in the same way as the worshipable and radiant Suryamandal, located in Duloka, is worshipped. 
O deserters! The one who receives your shelter and protection becomes stronger than all men, he makes riches with the help of food and his servants with the help of horses. He is the ritualist of Shobhan yajnas and is endowed with the people, son, etc. 
O bright ritvijo! The knowledge has arisen in my mind that the kamarshi rath of the Ashwinikumars has arrived. Go in front of them and please them with praise. They are the ones who give me the wisdom of virtue, praiseworthy, do good to the world, the grandson of Aditya and do holy deeds. 
The ocean is the swami of the flowing waters. Agni Dev is the swami of the earth. Moon is the swami of constellations. You be the best of all beings. (2)
Let the earth and sky rain for the growth of our numbers. Let usha, the strange donor, strive for our well-being. O sage! May these Rudraputra deserts accept your praises and let the rain fall down from the sky. 
 O hosts! You bow down to agni wisely. Worship them with thousands of wise deeds, so that the agni can cause a lot of suffering to the enemy for the dutiful hosts. 
Just as the currents of rivers meet with the velocity of air in the sea, similarly the streams of ghee fall into the agni of yajna at a rapid speed. Just as a strong horse pierces the army of enemies and leaves the earth with sweat, just as the streams of ghee irrigate the earth. (95)
May our vast words of praise be satisfied every day by the possessors of human beings, rich, admired by groups of praise, called many times by the growing hymns, the dyingless and the adorned ones. 
Words that do not cause distress, are truthful, inoffensive, and beneficial, as well as the regular recitation of the Vedic scriptures—these are declared as the austerity of speech.
The bright, agnostic by all and the masters of Soma, indra, is distinguished from the gods in the great force from the mountains, also extended from the earth, sky and vast space. 
Seeing the agni that was maya-free, of idiosyncratic, with stars-like sparks and increasing all the yagnas, the Ritvijas received them in each yajnashala. 
O Indra! Come before us who squeeze somras and listen to our praises. O Indra with shobhan shirasran! Enjoy the somrup havya. 
 O Indra! O agni! They follow the path of hota rit 
O agni! Please remove the killers, tyrants, the willing, the enemies with courage. Please give us money along with brave sons. (6)
O Indra! To give us more money, please you along with the body by somras and do not make my hymn a subject of condemnation. 
Fires with a wavy, wind-induced and smoky flag go separately into space. 
O agni! We Brahmins worship you. You remain present, calming or hiding our cravings. O agni! Defeat enemies and destroy sins. Stay awake in your home without making fuss. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! Jupiter had configured Surya's hair. Accordingly, we decorate this woman for the sake of husband through grooming etc. (55)
Vamdev said, "O Indra! Mother Aditi gave birth to you. At the same time, a demon named Kushwaa became a matwali and swallowed you up. The water brought you happiness by being engrossed. Indra was pleased to kill the demon in the sutikagriha itself." 
O good lucky night! Today, the thieves who kidnap metals like gold, make that money a means of our consumption. From this, we should also get our horses, elephants snatched by the enemy. (6)
Aj's eyes were true and hearted, life was reverent and the head became huge. Thus he actually became the world. This panchaudan form is an unlimited yajna. (21)
O men! He who created the mortal world and who locked the destructive asura in the dark cavity, just as Behelia takes away the slain animal, so he who takes possession of all the wealth of the conquering enemy, he is the Inder. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Your chariot carrying food and the wheel of the chariot praised by the stoetas is not interrupted by the enemy army. 
 Som is the one who is mad, the one with the armament, the green radiance and the power within 
The crooked and green-coloured mons with velocity filter on the dasapavittra and give the psalms child-like money. 
O sage! The sun is your lifeblood. You know this form of the sun in the yajna. Don't hide him. That movement of the sun goes as rays and illuminates the folk. The sun invents heaven and absorbs water. The sun never leaves its speed. 
Tomorrow , Usha 
O Ashwattha! Just as you rise up leaving down all the vegetation, that is, the trees, so crush the glasses of my enemies from all sides and destroy them. (6)
All the things that have been brought and won by tearing the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be free from the shackles of flora. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall face down. (18)
The meritorious Som goes to the Dronakalshas in this way, just as the waves rise in the water. Like the old deer leads to the forest, in the same way the mons go down from the pot. 
The yajnavardhaka water has created soma like the womb to see in the yajna. Soma is the benefactor of all, the poet, the most revered and is admired by many. 
Don't stop the two sub-priests who are connected in the chariot of Indra and the horses named Hari who are approaching the enemies. Praise them again and again. Rain water also pervades indra's motion. The clouds cross those places without any labour. 
This revered tensile fire! Wearing thousands of types of food, they meet the sweet things for the welfare of the host. 
O Jupiter and Savita Dev! You give these hosts enlightenment and consciousness. Increase the good fortune of the hosts. May all the gods be compatible with the host and provide them with pleasure. (8)
O agni! You come to our five regulators, three ways, and three-sided yajnas. Be our bearers, be our forerunners, and leave us and sleep in the darkness of the cave for a long time. 
That God is unique, that is, there was no one before him. It is he who has inspired these narratives that describe reality. Where the narrating verses reach, it has been called the great Brahmin i.e. the group of Veda mantras. (33)
We destroy the fear of nightmares from this man persecuted by immorality, the fear of people with evil lives, the fear of demons, and the cause of fear arising from great conduct. Due to poverty, I also drive away the vampires with evil names like sin lakshmis, chhedika, bhedika, etc. from their body. (5)
O god of agni, who is compatible and of the present agni in the earth and the sky! Tell our praise to the gods well and may we give happiness to the hymns with the home of adornment. Let us go beyond the sins by destroying our enemies, by your grace we may get rid of the enemy. 
The bride's chariot that is going to be pulled by twelve camels walks touching the sky. (2)
 O Indra! We are your fans and worshippers. You are going to drink som. You give us satisfaction. 
Swaha for waters. Swaha for wari. Swaha for udak. Swaha for stagnant waters. Swaha for flowers. Swaha for flowing waters. Swaha for well water. Swaha for sea waters. Swaha for wearable water. Swaha for sea waters. Swaha for the lake. (25)
You give supremacy in our soul. You dominate our oz. You dominate our age. You give supremacy to all our people. You give supremacy to all the means of our earth. (28)
O Indra and Mon! Just as a rope tied on both sides binds a horse, so may this praise impress you. I am sending this praise to you wisely. Just as the king fulfills the will of the one who asks for wealth, so do you make this praise a success. 
O Indra! You are the master of all. You go ahead of our army. O Indra, the asura named Vritra! You destroy our enemies. (3)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Just by your will, may the horses that join the chariot, with a strange look and a quick walk, bring you here to drink somras with a sigh of relief. O aschinikumaro who knows madhuvidya! You listen to my call. 
Let this bride be lucky. Everyone got together and watched it. Let everyone go to their homes by blessing it with good fortune. 
Breathing and exhalation are the horses of his chariot. Prana is his charioteer and air is the whip of that charioteer. (7)
The agnis that rain desires are as illuminated as horses carrying the gods. The hosts who give havi worship those illuminated agnis. (2)
The God of Agni is limitless, comet and great. His light is huge. May he be pleased for our yagya and food. 
I hold the squeezeable somaras or the soma in heaven to destroy enemies and in heaven. I also wear Tvashta, Pusha and Bhava. I hold money as the fruit of yajna for the host who takes havi, who receives havi to the gods and squeezes someras. (6)
O God, Mon! You fall down as your stream. Streams of your sweet juices are made. You go to dashapavittra from all sides while making words. 
The devas, the leaders of the desired works like rain, etc., hold the world. Those who unite all hold the world. The form of the gods holding the planets, stars, etc. of the distant sky is strange and visible. 
This king wishes to get heaven by composing stotras for Swami Indra of heaven. Indra completes the world with water while showering water. (11)
O agni! You, together with the Vasus, call Indra and along with rudras, the Maharudra for our welfare. Together with the Adityas, you invite aditi, who wants everyone's benefit, and the praiseworthy Angira devas, along with everyone's beloved Jupiter. 
O Indra Dev! May you give us the psalmists the happiness that the psalmists of ancient times received. Which is your nearest part in the yajna? Is he a will to give you? O Indra, who is worthy of sorrow, who hurts enemies, called to yagyas by many and has great wealth! Tell us this. (4)
Just as horses irrigate the earth with sweat in war, so the deserters who irrigate the world quickly get out of the ear of the cloud, climbing on to the horse and roaring. Maruto with a gold hat, with equal anger and a tree shaking! You come up on the greens with black drops to the host with a whiff. 
Indra, who believed in vajrayudha and shaktisadhya work, had made various walks by destroying the cities of the bandits. O thunderbolt! By understanding our praises, you must leave the arms upon our enemies and increase the strength and glory of the praises. 
O one who commits sin! Sanctify your feet and ascend to heaven with your hooves, knowing. This aj reached the third heaven, crossing many types of darkness. (3)
Hey Aditya! You come to help us in wars and be our comforters in wars. May the god who gives abode and adorn us from sins and follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot away from the high and low path. 
He is a wishy Mon! You're like a horse. "You sing to us and give us horses, and open the doors of wealth for us." 
O Indra! You become strong by drinking somers. Where somerus is not squeezed, you destroy that society. (5)
O Maruto! Make us happy. Don't destroy us with wrath, but expand our happiness. By listening to our praise, make you a sense of friendship towards us. The chariot of the maruts walking towards the water remains at the back. 
O ghost! May the black sesame seeds I scatter for you, you may find plenty in the hereafter and may Yamraj command you to eat them. (26)
O agni! You are the first to be revered. Rishi Angira has revealed to you. You are the God of gods. May you be good for us. You have become a marudgan poet and scholar. You are a friend to us. You have come to know about the desert. Marudgans have become omnipresent from your heart. Your heart is equipped with excellent weapons. (12)
The meritorious Som goes to drink the gods by filtering from the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. Som, who tolerates the attack of enemies, defeats all the enemies. 
O blazing agni! You sit in front of us on a chariot with Indra and other gods who are quick. Aditi with Shobhanputras sat on our kushas. May the deathless gods be happy to be united with Swaha. 
Jupiter, who gives joy, grace and puts the mind, is my soul. (5)
The mother-in-law condemns the gambler and the wife leaves him. If he asks for money, he doesn't get a giver. Just as the old horse seems to have no value at all, so my gambler is not respected anywhere. 
The Guru said to his disciple thus- 'O Devdatta! Apart from the method by which the previous ritualists consumed this odan, if you consume this odan by any other cosmic method, then the corona disease will destroy you.  It has not been done from the front, nor by the spirit. I have consumed this odan with space method. With this method, the odan consumed is completed. The man who knows how to consume odan in this way gets the full fruit. (8)
The third world i.e. heaven is called your head. He is going to refute all diseases. O leprosy with all kinds of powers! Remove all the diseases and the fall down from us. (10)
O Shakuni! Don't kill you or the eagle. The archer and the arrow thrower may not even get you. Say a sweet thing to us by speaking repeatedly in the south direction and becoming a good deed. 
O aschinikumaro who do holy deeds! Drink somras with a burning fire. You complete the yajna with seasons. 
O milk! When played efficiently, you remove seductive words. You make them happy by raising the arms of powerful men. You invoke the heroes and destroy our enemies through our friends, because you are the beloved of Indra. (8)
O Indra! Udgatta sings the Samaveda in such a way that it resonates in the sky and you understand it. We worship that growing samagan like heaven. Just as milch and violence-free cows sit in their place, so I serve you. 
The greater quantities i.e. panchatanmatras, because the five tanmatras are born from their mother nature. It originated from Maya. Thus Matli is greater than Maya. (5)
Do not give up my life and your air. May I always be happy. (5)
I call indra in whom all the kantis are dependents and a group of seven to whom somers are pleased to give, when I go to somers nichur. 
those who are aakta aksha, who are good-loving, those who are beautiful gems; Such Brahma putras are stotas, it has been considered in kalpas i.e. art texts. (7)
Kanvagotriya sage praises Indra. Just as the water flows downwards, so our praise becomes suitable for the service of our Indra. 
Savita Dev, who performs beautiful deeds and is admired by all human beings, and Agni Dev, who is selected by the world, are present while making the yajna honey. (3)
Hey Ritvijo! Serve the agni that completes the beautiful yajnas. Aadhavaryu holds the agni by hand in such a way as someone catches a child of a tiger etc. 
A man who engages in the worship of indra, who is mighty, destroying the swamis, who is not adringent, the increaser and the most powerful, cannot be stopped by his deeds. (18)
Just as cows from the cowshed go into the forest, the smoke of the yajna goes into the atmosphere. Their power and strength are revealed by the flame emanating from the body of agni. (82)
Hey Mon! You have pleasant defenses to give to the hosts, through them be our protectors. 
But one who controls the mind, and is free from attachment and aversion, even while using the objects of the senses, attains the Grace of God.
Among the gods, the brightest, the brightest, the brightest, and the agni alone finds its place. 
Just as a mother attaches the child born to her heart, so beautiful praises adorn Indra with a sharp ness. (2)
Kooth was brought by a gold boat through a path made of gold. The hulls of those boats were also gold. (5)
O constant agni! The ushas in which yajna is performed legally by food, the adornment hymns are spoken, and which are identified by the various words of birds and human beings, those ushas are published to you as wealth. O agni! You end all the sin sin sin committed by the host by the vastness of your vast flame. 
O agni created in the yajnas! There are three tongues that fill the stomach of your food place and gods. Be careful to protect our hymns through the three bodies anointed by the gods. 
O Maruto! You are going to do furious deeds. You should kill enemies together with Indra. Support Som Raja, Varuna Raja, Mahadev and Mrityudev Indra. (11)
The twenty-one rivers like Saraswati, Saryu, Indus, etc., with the ultimate great and waves, should come to our yagna for protection. May these divine rivers, which shed water and like mothers, provide us with water like ghee and honey. 
 This Usha is unique and very happy. It comes from heaven and destroys darkness. O Usha's work associate Ashwinikumaro! We specially praise you. 
The earth that trembles when the sun moves, the agni that lives in the water in the form of electricity, also resides in the earth, which abandoned Vritrasura and chose Indra, which is not going to give fruit to the gods and violent and who lives under a strong and powerful man. (37)
O Sun God! Sit on your chariot which is as bright as agni and moving at a fast pace. You have added a hundred or more seven lighting horses to your chariot. (7)
The one whose ram with the hairs takes the jamuhai is incapable. The one whose male organ hangs in the thighs is powerful. Indra is the best. (17)
O Vasishtha! You should recite your own pure and dear praise for the desireful Varuna. They bring before us the sacrificial, the lord of many riches, the desire-filled and the wide sun. 
Oh, God! You extended the Gyansadhan Yajna to get trikadruk i.e. jyoti, gau and vayu. May our praises enhance that sacrifice. 
Those who burn without wood inside the waters of the agni god water and whom the Brahmins praise in the yagnas, give us such sweet water, by drinking which Indra grows up to perform the deeds of bravery. 
O agni! Let our minds be the same. Let our resolutions be the same. O agni! You are the deva of puris. You make us energetic. You hold energy for the host. (58)
O Indra, who gives the abode! You return to me my praises at sunrise, at noon, at the end of the day, and at night. 
Like the ocean enlarged by water, these agnis grow a thousand times more than the desires given by the sages. I am truly proclaiming the glory of these agnis. The force of these agnis is worth seeing in the yajna. (2)
Even those who only listen to this knowledge with faith and without envy will be liberated from sins and attain the auspicious abodes where the pious dwell.
There is an Alabuk i.e. Ramtorai. (1)
 O Mon! You should be purified from those divine streams, through which milch cows can come to our place, wealth can reach our home. 
If Indra Dev, the one we go to, is the protector of all beings, then make us happy too. May Mars always be present in front of us. (6)
 O agni! You are ignited by the reverence of the hosts. Just as a cow reared for Agnihotra 
It is the divinity and importance of the sun that it wraps up its rays spread in the world even before the end of the world's deeds. When they separate horses called Harit from their chariot, then only the night spreads darkness in such a way that it is covering the world. 
O adhwaryujano! Prepare the soothing mon for these Indras. You wash in potable water and bring the purified mon. Happy Indra you want the hand-crafted somras of you. Bring the intoxicating mon to Indra. 
The one who knows those two anis, through whom wealth is churned, the same scholar considers God to be the greatest and he knows the great Veda mantras. (20)
He who waters the one who knows it through Alabu violates him. (1)
When a dynasty is destroyed, its traditions get vanquished, and the rest of the family becomes involved in irreligion.
Let us go with Indra in the above tree which is the heaven that destroys the demon. Let us drink Madhu twenty-one times and get Indra's friendship. (4)
On the arrival of Indra in the yajna, we should get happiness by being endowed with various personalities of food. (1)
This stotao! The first thing I call to Dodhidra Dev to protect you. After this, I call ashwarinikumaras, Usha, Ignited Agni and the god named Bhaga. I call Indra, Vishnu, Pusha, Brahmanaspati, Adityas, Dyava-Prithvivi, Jalon and Surya. 
O gem made from the tree! Those who want to kidnap the animals and nation of this host, you should take away their fate and age from them and destroy them. (16)
O Ahutio! You protect this yajna. O Ghrit, Ksheer etc! You follow this yajna. O God! Protect this host who desires fruit. Increase this host from sons, animals, etc. I offer in the agni of Havi containing Ghee, Ksheer etc. for the purpose of you gods. (2)
Hey Rudra! May we live for a hundred years with the help of the soothing medicines that you have given us. Destroy our enemies, remove our sin sins and eradicate the diseases in our bodies. 
The agni with the help of which the gods received nectar, with the help of which the herbs got sweet juice and with the help of which heaven is obtained, may the agni god rescue me from sin. (6)
O agni! We accept you for the yajna work. You are omnipresent and protect us from energetic, all-powerful, admirable abominable (evil) deeds. You don't curse anyone. You are not cursed yourself either. You take us on the path of truth. Please put our intellect into the best works. You are our base and protector. (5)
O happy and rich Indra! Increase the hymn with the money you have taken away from the asuras. That hymn has laid the cushion for you. 
O leader, friend and Varun! Pleased with the somras squeezed in the morning and in the devyagna with the beautiful rays of ushakaal, you come to me archana with the help of your horses. 
O father! Meet us with your soma-like wealth, because you are successful because of your sacrifice. You give us our will and listen to our call when called. (19)
O agni! You are a force, that's why give me strength. This havi is well done havan. (3)
They perform yajna for Indra Dev. They sit on Kush's seat. They are nutritious, immortal, dear, amritraj and age-bearing. We praise him in the great verses. We praise them with the power of the senses. We praise them from the three calves Bali cow. Please accept havi along with Lord Indra and Adi Dev. Please offer a host sacrifice. (27)
O medicine called leprosy! You were known to be the ancient kings of the Ikshvaku dynasty and you were considered to be the son of Cupid. You knew a god named Vasu. Because of this, you are the medicine of all diseases, you are known as the destruction of all diseases. (9)
 O Indra! The sons of you refine somerus for you. You are great. You increase their sacrifices and their hymns. 
Hey Mon! Don't put us in the hands of death. We look at the rising sun for a long time. Inspired by the days, let our old age be happy. Listen to our praise and go away. 
Many flames of agni are visible. Their chariots are many, but everyone has the same destination. O agni! When you burn the forests with your flamed arms, you climb the high ground by becoming humble. 
At the same time as the desiring rivers run towards the most distant sea, the water moves like the people sitting in the chariot. Similarly, the finest Indras, squeezed from the vines, come running from space towards the minirupa som. 
He who eats before the guest eats, he eats the fruits of the favored deeds in him. Sandhya etc. are called daily karma favored and yajna etc. karma done for some purpose are called apoorta. (1)
The poet, who had many kinds of praises, the knower of yajna, the seeker of wealth, the desire for wealth, the desire of animals, etc., and the bright sage, had praised the gods through camels and hymns, wishing for wealth. 
Let us remove our enemies by forces in the same way that the sky defeats the earth. Just as mountains stop the movement of the clouds, so we stop the movement of the enemies. Let the unrighteous hear our praise and walk away. 
Indra radiates the clouds that give wealth and strengthen the earth. Brahmanaspati permeates wealth through the clouds that collide with each other. (7)
What is known as sanyās is non-different from Yog, for none become yogis without renouncing worldly desires.
 O agni! Kashyap is your father and Shraddha mata. Manu is a poet. You appear in the yajna initiated by the best deeds. 
The force of the water-yearn Indra, King Varuna, Adityas and Marudganas is terrible. Mahamanasvi, the one who shook Bhuvan and the victorious gods cheered. 
The vayaghra gem made of trees is the protector and purifier. May he remove all diseases and demons from us. (14)
O Indra! We praise you with the desire to make you powerful and gain food. We get you and find your friendship. You run the vajra to destroy the anti-god Pyu asura. 
  O agni! Wherever your mind is, wherever you are, please provide it with the best strength and best accommodation. 
Just as the cows call the calves to drink milk, the talented host calls Indra to drink soma. 
O Indra! From time to time you inspire beings and give money to the one who praises, we have heard this. What do your friends receive from you, the psalms who put their will in you? 
O Gods! You cannot transgress the suns which are seen by everyone like a continuous path in the sky. Oh, humans! You don't know them. O earth and sky! Know our point. 
 O Mon! You are satiating. You jump from a thousand streams. Please give us all kinds of splendour from all sides. 
I know the broad thread, that is, God, in which all these subjects are threaded. I know the root cause of this world-wide formula, which is the great Brahman or the set of huge Veda mantras. (38)
O sun! You are the god of gods. Let us rise above the darkness and introspect (see for ourselves). May we get progressive happiness. Let us get Savita Dev and the best light. (10)
The powerful and thousand-streamed mons are filtered by dashapavittra and prepared for Indra. 
We want to please the violence-free earth-sky for the benefit of food through adornment hymns and sacrifices. Like parents, may the earth with sweet/promised and beautiful hands protect us in all the struggles. 
O Indra! You're all addicted. O rebellion! You add your horses to the chariot and you are the brave leader. Nodha, the son of sage Gautama, has made this new hymn of yours for us, so Indra, who receives wealth through karma, should be attracted to this hymn early in the morning. 
O Rich Kubera! Make your husband say that this girl should become my wife. Turn this groom towards the girl and make all beings working according to her marriage. This girl should get her desired husband. (6)
 O Mon! You are the forerunner and the sweetest. You are presented to Indra with the stream of Rita. 
O Indra! We have heard from the sages you as the chief among the human beings, the follower of the gentlemen, the creator and successful for the welfare of the Panchjans. Get our son and grandson Indra, who praises day and night and describes desires. 
Indra gives a thousand number of money to the one who performs the stota yagna. This hymn! You should worship the same Indra very well. (3)
O you praise-worthy Indra! Just as people throw water at others while doing water sports, so we send great and desirable hymns to you. 
O million! You are born from trees called Kadamba, Pakad, Peepal, Khair, Dhau, Bhara, Nygrodh and Parna. O wound cleansing and healing medicine! You get us. (5)
 O Mon! The host praises you with the three words of the form of Rik, Yaju and Saam. Brahmins and mystics come looking for you in the same way as cows go to the bull. 
O conscience! Praise and worship those maruts. The donation of the maruts is glorified. We are smaller than the great ones, just as a great master has an inferior servant. 
We call aditi, dyava-prithvivi, great truth, indra, vishnu, desert, vast heaven, devas, adityas, vasus, rudras and the sun that gives the best gifts to protect us. 
This Havi has been given as Swaha to Agni and Varuna, Indra and Marudgana and all the gods. 
O daughter of gold and vibhavari Usha! Remove the sorrow hidden in our cows or in us for the welfare of me. Your protection is foolproof and beautiful. 
By the som located in the chamas of the fathers, we call the mind quickly. We call the mind by the hymns of the fathers. 
O Manu! You become as bright as agni and defeat the enemies. O bearable manu! When you are called commanders of our army, come and kill our enemies and give us their wealth. You kill the fighting enemies while showing strength. (2)
 O Indra! You are rich. May Someras make you mad. You drink this somers. You give us and our sons a lot of money. 
Those who have known indra, who are visible, with friends in the form of ritwiz, praised by many and all the beings of the world, all the people take it in their hands and call the same powerful Indra always. 
O sin god Nirti! The pigeons and owls sent by you. They could not come to my house and get shelter. (2)
May Vishnu or the non-violent air or the money-giving Mons give us happiness. May Ribhugana, Ashchinikumar, Tvashta and Vibhu be happy to give us money. 
O Indra! This Somras had published the night, day, year, etc. without the lights. The Devas had earlier accepted Som as the flag of days. It was this Somras that made the Ushas with divine birth. 
O God! Do violence to that enemy, walk with him and break his ribs. (12)
O Ashwinikumaro, who has riches and wants a lot of food! After tonight is over, we will call you by the havyas. 
Sitting on green horses and coming at a fast pace, Indra said to Uchaihasrava about the horses, "O horse! Be your welfare. You put Indra on your back adorned with garlands." (13)
Let the melody rain cover us well. O Indra! Give us thousands of kinds of money located on your chariot. O God! Sit in our yajna, do home according to the season and please the gods through the havi. 
O agni! Let us accept the sacrifice of the people. O son of the force and the agni that dwells in three places! You accept the havya. We should be the doers of adornment by staying among the gods. You protect us by three kinds of exquisite pleasures. 
This is a beautiful aschinikumaro! Your heroic deeds are worth knowing for all. The praise of both of you as the present as the earth and the sky is pleasant and worthy of declaration. Whenever the Angiragothri hosts call you, bring you enough food, and give me strength to those who know your praise. 
O agni! You bear the ghee for the gods with the fuel of a powerful medicine. Please the gods with this deed. All the gods come in my it. (1)
O god of adornment! Whether we live in the house for agnihotra or are on the way to bring the samidahas, we call you to grow by the means of the week. 
 O praisers! Sing vedic praises completely for Indra's horses, cows and Indra Dham. 
 Indra is dynamic. Their horses are ploughed only by saying in their big chariot with big gambling. These horses are also going to know the destination themselves. They leave for the designated place as soon as they hear the praise of the host. 
O Indra! At the beginning of the yajna, just as the somarous is given to the desirous air, i will give you the squeezed somras. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to the jhullok. 
He who knows this becomes the master of animals of all forms of the whole world. (26)
O Indra! Whenever you are happy to win the enemy's wealth after Somapan, then the bright waters are rejoicing after you. O enemies Indra! Give us more powerful money, let not the demons and demons hinder you. 
Hey Mon! Your food is produced in the world and yours is present in the world, the fierce and great happiness and food on the earth. 
O fever that makes life painful! The one who entered and burnt the waters, that is, heated, the agni in which those who do religious acts like fame, charity, etc., have done home, your birth is said to be from the same good anina. Knowing all this, you leave our body bathing with hot water and enter the anna. (1)
Arjun said: O Shree Krishna, seeing your gentle human form (two-armed), I have regained my composure and my mind is restored to normal.
O barley food! You are rising high and become many kinds. Fill all the vessels like leprosy, cell etc. with your glory. The thunderbolt falling from the sky should not do your violence. (1)
O you who are located in places like the great dulok, the one who holds wealth and welfare for us and is helpless! We ask you for money through shobhan kriya. 
The one who has called me a demon, or who has described himself as pure despite being a demon - indra dev should kill these two untruthists with his slaughter instrument Vajra. These two types of people should be destroyed by all the creatures of the world. (16)
O Mon! Please give the host all the glory of earth, space and heaven. 
This stotao! Make Fire, the son of water, your friend with the gods. Let them be good for us. 
O Kalyani! Give it to Dev, who knows everything. O all- good! Protect all our two-legged sons, grandsons etc. and four-legs. (4)
Hey Mon! You are squeezed to Indra by the Ritvijs. O soma who looks kindly at the meritorious and the sacrificial ones! You get inspired and meet in the water. There are too many holes for you to go. Your thousands of pervaded and green rays are located on the stones. 
 Someras reaches the holy place of Indra 
Having gained that state, one does not consider any attainment to be greater. Being thus established, one is not shaken even in the midst of the greatest calamity.
In this cow of Brahmin, all kinds of coot deeds and all kinds of slaughter of men are prevalent. (3)
These songs of different colours, which aspire to touch Indra, mix Indra's drinkable som with his milk. These songs produce such an item in Indra that they can drive the enemy-destroying thunderbolt. These songs demonstrate indra's authority. 
When he walked towards the west direction, he moved as Varuna, describing the water as Annad. (5)
The night god is Usha Devi. Saraswati Devi established the force in Indra Dev, established the power of speech in the mouth. Hold money for us. Those interested in money should please perform a welfare yagna for him. (50)
On a certain stake, i.e. uniting the three four axes i.e. dice, again scattering them on many woods to win them in gambling and knowing the remedies of victory, I call the nymph, gambling well. She wins the money invested in gambling by making it a chill. (2)
May Usha and Ratri Devi be well adorned in the night. Both the goddesses are divine work, huge, adorned with ornaments and of kapish color, please be well established. (31)
 Hosts get wealth and happiness by the grace of the gods. They get a good building. Those who do not perform yajnayaag do not get all this. 
I see all the sons of Dhritarashtra, along with their allied kings, including Bheeshma, Dronacharya, Karn, and also the generals from our side, rushing headlong into your fearsome mouths. I see some with their heads smashed between your terrible teeth.
O Papama! If you do not leave me, I will force you to leave you at the intersection of four paths by this ritual. May the sin left there enter our enemies. (2)
These deathless , enemy destroyer and deity seeking Som's adorn in their place. 
 O agni! You are stunning. A lot of food is given to you. We worship you with light. We treat you as a friend. We set you up by putting forward the best praise. 
We call upon the fathers who want to be sommers. We invoke the ancestors sitting on the seat of Kush. May the fathers be pleased to listen to our beloved words and our spoken praises and protect us. (57)
O Indra! Give us plenty of money for our son, grandson and place of residence. You give us the things we want for our lives. 
O earth! Summer, rain, autumn, hemant, shishir and spring - these six seasons and day, night and year - all these are going to give us fruit. (36)
O Indra! Listen quickly to the hearable hymns and win the wealth of enemies like the sun, wishing for our service. From time to time, be well aware of the subject of praise by force and by Ivan, and be with Us as before. 
 Rainwater falls on the ground and mixes with the ground water. Both these waters take the form of a river and join the sea. There these waters give pleasure to the sea agni. Similarly, Someras enjoys by joining water. 
 O Indra! Just as you alone are the swami of all splendour, if I also become the master of all splendour, then those who praise me become rich, cow etc. 
The leaders of the praises, the gods of all, sit on the planks squeezing non-violent and green mon rasa. 
O frog! You have attained happiness and have words of speech. O pain! Say such a word that your cry will start raining. In the middle of the lake filled with rainwater, you jumped with your four legs spread according to the jump. (14)
Indra, who wears vajra, wants the interest of worshippers. Indra's horses live with them. With our chanting of mantras, those horses are added to the chariot. (5)
All usha are mutual sisters and follow each other. May the coming ushas be as beautiful as the ancient ushas and make us very rich. 
My father cruelly commanded that I be the companion of my ancestors, I looked at him with condemnation. Now I have a love for them." 
Marudganas adorn their bodies with a variety of ornaments and wear beautiful necklaces on the chest. The leader marudganas, holding arms in their hands, were born from the sky with their power. 
May Vasu, Indra, Pusha, Varuna, Mitra, Agni and Vishwa Dev give wealth to this man who wishes for wealth of kindness and make it a good light. (1)
 Somerus is very bright. The stream of this makes a dripping sound all around. Cleaned somerus is added to cow's milk. 
Oh, Usha! You can give us all kinds of money you have requested or unsolicited. O radiant Usha! You remove darkness for the Psalms and do not violence against them. O Shobhan born Usha! People praise you for getting ass. 
Beautiful wives dress well and just as they reveal their bodies to the husbands, so the goddesses appear at all the gates of the yajnashala. O gate, ladies! Let the doors be open so that the devas can easily go through them. 
O Indra! We desire your friendship and act in harmony with your friendship. You take us forward from the path of virtuous deeds. Let us all overcome sins. Let the strings of the bows of our enemies be destroyed. 
Oh woman! Just as the arrow naturally reaches the penis, so the womb containing a man's semen reaches your genitalia. After ten months of pregnancy, he will be transformed into a son and born strong. (2)
 O Mon! You are the wide wanderer, fearless, the adder of heaven and earth. You get nourishment from the rays of usha and sun. You make a sound and be pure. You give us money. 
Some see the soul as amazing, some describe it as amazing, and some hear of the soul as amazing, while others, even on hearing, cannot understand it at all.
O Indra! You are Shachi's husband. You are mighty. You give us the boons we want along with protection and give us a successful wealth like good fortune. We worship you. 
O man! Don't do the violence of your life. Do not make the violence of your own air the elusive demons, O Gods of Agni, Moon etc. While being illuminated, all the knowledgeable gods should run to protect our lives with chariots etc. (6)
I praise the same Indra who is the protector of all human beings, the swami of horses with green or green names and the controller of all. I praise Indra, who is pleased with praises. He is Indra to sing us stos and give horses. (4)
We dedicate a new hymn to the agni like the bird of heaven. They give us a lot of money. 
O Sacrificial God! May water and medicines be like friends for us. For those who hate us or those we hate, water and medicines become harmful like dumitras (bad friends). (23)
Friends and Varuna surround the migrating host by irrigating the yajna through water. O friend and Varun! You're both growing up. 
O Mon! You are pure and cool. You are getting mixed with water in Dronakalsh. 
O Jupiter! You must put in my mouth a radiant, flawless and moving praise. With the same eulogy, rain came from the sky to Shantanu and drip the juice containing honey. 
O Indra! Let your work force come before us from the west, north, south and east, let that force come close to us from all sides. You give us wealth containing all the pleasures. 
In the forest, one person calls the cow and the other cuts the wood. A person living in a huge forest gets scared to hear the word of animals in the evening. 
In this bhuvana, he was the same elder, from which the sun-like Indra, with fierce and illuminated force, has been born.  Those who began to annihilate the enemies as soon as Indra was born, all the gods welcome them. 
Oh dear friend and Varun! This praise of Mine covers you up, goes to you with a havya and reaches your yajna. O friend of adornment and Varun! Give us a house that stops the cold and the wind and is undisturbed by the enemies. 
Vritra's mother fell on his body diagonally to save Vritra from Indra's blow. Indra hit the vajja on the lower part of Vritra's mother. At that time the mother was up and the son was down. Just as the cow sleeps with its calf, so Vritra's mother Danu fell asleep forever. 
The great Vasishtha, who divides a hundred cows, contains a thousand cows and through knowledge and karma, has created this stotra towards agni, the destroyer of demons, the protector of demons, giving happiness to the psalms and daughters. 
When the sun is hidden, the most moving Varuna gives all the moving beings the desired, soothing and attainable habitat. At the time when Savita separates all the beings, all the birds and animals go to their places. 
Dynamic, the masters of the dulok, the hundred streams, the special seer and the greenvarna are located in dronakalash, while speaking words in the yajna like the friend of the som devas. The means of filtering soma are purified with the help of dashapavittra and are rain-feders. 
 O Mon! You are skilled, resourceful, cheerful and strong. You find hikes to the drinking of the gods. You flow to the deserts. You flow for air. 
A drop bounced from the kakud of Brahma i.e. the upper part. O Vasa Gau! You have been born from the same drop and those who perform havan have been born from the same drop. (19)
He began to behave according to the food and food of the people, brothers. (2)
King Som renounced the shame and gave jupiter's wife Juhu to him first. Mitra and Varun became the mediators in this. The agni that called the gods brought him by holding hands. 
O ghost! Let the people of the ancestors appear for you to sit. I establish you in that world. (67)
When Manu begins charity, no one equals him. They are located similar to the Mountain of Gold. Savarna grows everywhere like the Dakshina river of Manu. 
O man! Do not come to asura with teeth mixed to feed you. Do not get you even ignorance or darkness. Don't let your wide tongue describe demons. The way you become free from violence, do not know it ashambh asur. Aditi son Dev, save you from death. Save you for the welfare of eight Vasus Indra and Agni. (16)
They stopped the rain in the sky with jagati verses and saw the sun in rathantar sam mantras. It is said that gayatri verse has three stages, that is why she goes beyond the elders in importance. 
 Those who do not praise are enemies of Indra. Indra knows the hymns read by the hosts very well. Indra also knows and understands the saam sung by Purohit. We praise Indra. 
In which the yajna is the one who holds the yajna and is able to tie the yupe to the yup. In that yajna, the host finds heroic wives, sons, houses, earth, wealth, etc. 
Yogis who know the secret of these two paths, O Parth, are never bewildered. Therefore, at all times be situated in Yog (union with God).
O Indra! The man who prays to you with somaras and many stotras attains tremendous strength and opulence. (6)
Whoever knows this, Pashupati adapts to him from the corner of the west direction. Pashupati does not do violence to men and animals that suit him. (7)
 O Indra! You come to our yajna. We have prepared clean somers for you. You drink this somers. You sit on the seat of this Kush. 
Hey Ritvijo! You are called by many, praised by many, worthy of yajna singing and calling indra to the famous god special in eternal form. 
Oh, God! The Ritwija people call through hymns to satisfy the increased agni with their brightness. They call agni in shobhan yajnas for protection. 
Just as birds make a high sound while moving in water and protecting themselves from diseases, just as the cloud group roars and just as the water raining from the clouds satisfies crops, etc., similarly the stotas praise Jupiter With their praises. (1)
O Kamini! Just as the mouths of those who do not drink water dry up, so you are satisfied with the feeling of work towards Me. Come near to me as a dry-mouthed one.
He held the sky, took out the cows stolen by the asuras, and, being the supreme devotee, served by the animals and scattered the rainwater due to the food. He rises after his daughter Usha. He made the horse the mother of the cow. 
O deserters! The defense by which you remove the host from sins, and from which you deliver the hymn from the hand of the enemy, your same defense will come to us as if a cow with a ramming cow comes to its calf. 
O agni! You are acclaimed. We sing the glory of you. You are the one with the best sacrificial deeds, pure, wise. We praise you to both the right. (27)
Come to us to sit on the well-laid kushas living in paradise and worthy of worship. May Jupiter, Pusha, Varuna, Friends and Aryama give us all the happiness related to the house. 
 O Indra! Out of the millions, any host who worships you with somayagya, you quickly make him energetic. 
Wise people drink water like ghee between the sky and the earth through their deeds. That space is the definitive habitat of Gandharvo. 
O Indra! This yajna is going to receive the gods. This sacrificial animal, these mantras, this squeezed somras and the scattered Kush, are all for you. O century! You come quickly and sit on the cushions and drink somras. You separate your horses from the chariot in this yajna. 
O Indra! You drank somras for the sake of strength as soon as you were born. Mother Aditi described your glory. You filled the wide sky with your brightness. You received wealth for the gods by war. 
The most powerful, the same loving as us, the horses named Prisht, the meek and the hostile deserts come to us from the earth and the sky in the same way that the befrienders approach each other. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You led Bhuju to the waterless shore of the water-logged sea by three fast-moving chariots that were driven by a hundred wheels, six horses, three days and three nights. 
Show our enemies those who are hidden from their maya, those black colored and four-toothed. Show the demons which are terrible due to many forms, you also show them to our enemies. (17)
We meditate on savita dev's superior brightness, which inspired our intellect. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You conquer hymns and sacrifices, kill demons and subdue diseases. You drink the somras of the host together with Usha and Surya. 
We got a yellow colored, sky-bearing grain and indra-related bull with many forms. He should strengthen us in all respects by giving us age, children and money. (22)
Who among the following writes to Karkari? (8)
Indra found the cloud in space, the site of the circulation of the rivers, and opened the door made of stones. Gandharva spoke of the water of these rivers, Indra knows the strength of the clouds properly. 
The Divine Lord said: I shall once again explain to you the supreme wisdom, the best of all knowledge; by knowing which, all the great saints attained the highest perfection.
Swaha for life. Swaha (for the living) including the overdeva of the living. Swaha to the earth. Swaha for agni. Swaha for the space god. Swaha for air. Swaha for heaven. Swaha to the sun. (1)
O agni! You trouble the wicked. You ride on an elephant like a king and attack the enemies. You heat the demons. Like a wide net, you spread your strength more. (9)
O daughters of a demon named Magundi! I drive you away from my cowshed, from the place of gambling and from the house of keeping grains. I take you out of my homes and destroy you in a special way. (2)
O Indra! These cows should not be destroyed. Even those who follow them should not be violent. There should be no effect of enemy and thief on them. (13)
O dream! I know you very well. You save me from bad dreams. (10)
O Ashwinikumaro! Bring your chariot in front of us, drink the sweet sommers, come to the yagna and reach in front of the somras. I call you with the desire to protect. You give me the jeweler. 
O faultless agni! You are more aware than all the gods. May your parents be happy with the lord and the host of the sacrificial priest, as a form of grace, by staying near the earth and the heavens. O welfare! You provide all kinds of property for the host. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You go to hear the call of the hymn with the sages, the wishing hawks and the maruts. You come with Usha, Surya and Adityas. 
The angiras who performed the yajnakarma, along with Indra, saved the animal shed containing cows and horses. The best agni in the Angiras give us wealth with the gods. 
The rays of The Mon, which followed according to praise and boasted of speeding, originated together from ancient space. From the point of view of knowledge, sinners who do not listen to the zero and praises of gods give up those rays. Sinners do not walk through the path of truth. 
A agni of praise is ignited by the called and praised. And before all the gods are irrigated by ghee. 
May the agni of the angels, who know everything, burn our enemies and make the minds of violent enemies coming from the front. Jatveda Agni should not keep them worthy that they can take up arms by hand. (1)
O Lord of the Yajna, Ribhuo! Give us consumable food. Give money for our chariot and food for the consumption of horse. May the whole world worship our glorious food forever and let us destroy the enemy present or absent in the war. 
These waters coming from the sky serve the earth and reach the sky again from the earth. These holy waters are pure. May this water bring us to heaven. (26)
The ever-happy and wealthy Indra is the one who provides cows. O Indra, come to our Somayag and drink Someras. (2)
The gods gave the wife again to Jupiter and thus made her sinless. After this, all the people started living happily by dividing the wealth of the earth among themselves. 
O Maruto! Sit on our cushions. Come near us to give us the money we want. In this yajna, you should drink the madkari somras as swaha and become merry. 
 O agni! You sit on the seat of Kush with other gods with your bright flames. You are our friend. 
These Indras have attained progress with the power of thousands of sages. The true glory of Indra is described in the yajna, the kingdom form of the Brahmins. 
O agni! You are born uninterrupted from the mothers of the arinus. You are holy, admired by all, learned, ignited by hosts and magnified by the ancient sages with the help of ghee. O holy agni! Your smoke is located in the sky as your flag. 
Oh, Usha! You first gave light to the bright substances like nakshatra etc. With that speed you made the athletic more athletic. You are having advanced status, however your friendship we have with those of the following positions. That's your only importance and strength. 
O brave Indra! Your power is worthy of praise for all, because it is through one action that you get the wealth of the enemies, you gave food to the mighty Jatushchir. You have done all these things, so you deserve praise. 
The wife of Brahma, who lives in the best place or is well aroused by mantras and experienced by scholars themselves, who are Vagdevi or Saraswati, they are also pronounced in cursing etc. - they should give peace to us. (3)
O animals! You be armed and be with me. May Varun Dev nourish my life and your air. May Agni Dev strengthen my strength. (7)
O patient! Protect your heart by dripping poison from each part of you. The intensity of the poison should be destroyed by attaining degradation. (25)
O Indra! Your new and ancient graces and properties cannot be described by Usha. You killed Devak, the son of Manyman, and raised a great mountain and made a distinction between shambar. 
One should first think about heaven. The horse is the largest. The earth is the greatest protector. The earth is the most beautiful. The night is going to keep everyone hidden in its darkness. (12)
Those who are the fathers of the earth, those who are the creators of heaven, those who are the original men, those who are satyadharma, we should never be opposite to them. We should never be against them. Apart from the one who is born first, to which other god should we offer our sacrifice? (102)
O Indra! May the horses named Hari, who are attached in a huge chariot and mutually happy, bring you before us. The cupboards break down indra's enemies, well-massaged and the horses coming from the sky divide the directions into two parts. 
O agni! You are Samvatsar, Parivatsar, Idvatsar and Vatsar. It's yours. Day and night belongs to you. Half month (side) belongs to you. Months belong to you. The year belongs to you. You expand the Kalpant Samvatsar etc. properly. You come. You groom them all. You are like the life force of the mind. You sit still. You accept our sacrifice and make us confess to the gods. (45)
O Goddess of bondage! Free us by removing the ropes of the noose that bind the paths of our body from us. Separate the loops that belong to Uttam, Adham and Varuna from us. Separate the noose of sin created by bad dreams from us. By getting rid of these traps, we should get the worlds that are found as the fruit of virtue. (1)
The officers and protectors of the yajna give happiness by the water of the desert, by the water of the sky, come from a fast-moving chariot and protect our intellect and come to the yajna, wishing for the great one. 
From the glory of Prajapati Dev, all the mountains like the Himalayas etc. have been born, all the streams in the ocean, whose glory is absorbed - east, west, north and south four directions, we worship him through Havi. (5)
O seeker! Just as the reproductive organ of a creature named Tayadar i.e. the penis becomes thick due to air and as the sex of a creature named Paraswara is, your penis should also increase to the same magnitude. (2)
O Ashwinikumaro! You conquer the enemies, praise and protect the psalms, and give us children and money. You join Usha and Surya and strengthen us. 
Six giant ladies make me progress. Oh, all gods! Do the act of valour in my yajna. I do not suffer any harm related to the body and the people. O King Mon! Let's not lose in front of the enemy. 
Whatever yamdoots are here, the new old, they should go far, far away. Move too far. Yamraj himself has given this place of earth to our ancestors for yajna. (45)
O Indra! It is placed on thin somras laid out kushas. Drink it to increase strength. 
For agni, murge b banaspatidev gets the law of owl, agni and for som, neelkanth bird. There is a law of peacock for Ashwani Devs and pigeon birds for Varun Dev. (23)
O dream! We know your origin. You are the sons of death and abhuti i.e. poverty. O self- We know you very well. You protect us from bad dreams. (5)
At the time of our transmission, I close the eyes of all those who are sitting on the way and who is watching, just as this visible building is unable to see. (5)
I have told you all the medicines that make the organs healthy and eliminate tuberculosis. I have also told you the medicines that remove all the poisons of tuberculosis. (19)
Those who became Sanskrit through pitar agne, those who became Sanskrit by burial etc. and who reside in the sky satisfied with pind, pitrayag etc., O agni! You know them well. They should consume pitruyag etc. done by their children. (35)
O Varun Dev! Please listen to our prayers. May we be blessed with the havan we are performing today. We call on you to protect us. (1)
The Ritvijas had ignited the agni in three places, which signified the yajna, installed by the hosts in the best place and similar to Indra etc. Those with good deeds and those who called the gods sat on the agni-filled kushas to complete the yajna. 
We praise the force of Indra, who is skilled in killing the asuras. No one can destroy the works that Indra possesses. Indra makes the sun visible every day. Indra, who has a shobhan-karma, has expanded the whole world. 
O Lord of wealth Indra! A demon named Vance attacked you as a drunkard and hit your nose and chin, after which you became more powerful and cut off his head with his thunderbolt. 
The Supreme Lord dwells in the hearts of all living beings, O Arjun. According to their karmas, he directs the wanderings of the souls, who are seated on a machine made of the material energy.
O men who are near to death! The protectors of Yamraj's path are two dogs – one black and the other mottled. Don't let them both hinder you. Do not pay attention to dead men and do not turn away from there even once while living in this land. (9)
I alone defeat an enemy. I defeat two, who do not tolerate enemies. What will the three enemies do to me? Just as the farmer crushes the grain in Khaliyan, so I destroy many enemies. What can my enemies opposed to Indra condemn me? 
O eye, mind, brahman and the destructive power of penance! You are the best armament than all the weapons. The armaments who want to destroy us should become armamentless. (9)
O Indra! Go before the army that behaves like an enemy towards the innocent. O Indra, the destroyer of trees! Both you and agni become adversarial and consume the enemy army. (3)
O Swami Varun! I will not get the house of clay you have given me, O Varuna of Shobhandhan! Make me happy and have mercy on me. 
Human beings bring the defeater of all the people, the fastest, the messenger of the host, the knowledge of the flag, and the deep-seated agni for the welfare of all the people. 
O Vajradhari Indra! When invoked by us, you come to our yagna by your horse to drink Someras. (1)
O agni! Donate your power to the pure Havi-carrying Dwitha 
Oh, O Surya! The Brahmins know that both the sun moon wheels of your shakat run according to the times. Your samvatsaroop wheel which is hidden in the cave is known to the meritorious people. 
Like the womb of mother earth, destroy the enemies by sitting on the agni yajnaveli that is ignited on the indestructible altar and following the father of the dulokarupi by havya. 
O adhwaryujano! Just as the cow's trunk is full of milk, so these fruit givers know very well the host who gives Somras to Indra. 
The moon! You are holy. In the past, it was our patient and holy ancestors who performed yajna rituals. You drive away the obstacles. Indra Dev is brave, equestrian and wealthy. May he bless us with wealth. (53)
O Indra, the best of the asuras! If you want to make us happy, we call you to squeeze the somras. 
Better than mechanical practice is knowledge; better than knowledge is meditation. Better than meditation is renunciation of the fruits of actions, for peace immediately follows such renunciation.
Like a young woman, Usha is illuminated near the sun, inspiring all living beings to communicate. Fire has been ignited by humans and spreads light that erases darkness. 
The real furious and the stream that falls down of the great mon is flowing. This juice of the juiced mon is flowing. O mon of green! You drop the juice down to Indra while being purified by the Brahmin. 
May indra, who conquers the enemies and the brilliant, make us fearless from all four directions. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come here with the means by which you made Shuchanti the master of the rich and sovereign, the hot fire that burned the atri, and the protection of the prischigu and purukuts. 
Created by Aranimanthan, installed in the yagnakund in the house of the host, the youth, the revolutionaries, the worshipers, the worshipers, the great and the forests, even when the jataveda, the great and the forests are destroyed, the little agni holds the nectar in this yajna. 
Varun Devta, who associates with the gods and creates happiness, resides in the yagyas, which increase tarak and wealth. (6)
Soma, a poet and a special seer, is worshipped on the hair of Aries like the navel of space. 
O you who are adorned and doable, the deserters! With the help of the strong and worthy Indra, you destroy Shanru. Let not that evil enemy be our master. 
Deserts with adorning ordnances, dynamic and beautiful ornaments decorate their bodies. 
 O Mon! You scare the unsuspecting. You guide us. Please fill us with wealth. 
Open the noose with our heads from above and the nooses of the waist from the middle, so that we can take on life. 
O Indra! Let us not deviate from the path and do not stay away from the yajna of the host of Somras. Let the enemy not come among us. 
O Prajapati! Apart from you, no God is going to pervade all the beings of all sizes at this time. May we receive the fruit we wish for and become the masters of wealth. (3)
We have removed the evil enemy named Arru from the earth. The place has been cleared by removing the midti. Now we request that soil to go to the cows' enclosure. May heaven bless the earth with enough rain. Savita is the creator. Let them bind those who hate us with hundreds of bonds and never set them free. (26)
I invoke Indra in my yajna as before. O Indra! You should drink this somras honey given by the devotees. (7)
Hey Mon! With the help of stones, you go to dashapavitra, entering indra's stomach. O special seer Mon! You look at humans kindly. You have covered the mountain that was hidden for the welfare of the Angiragothrist sages. 
Oh, God! May the brave-praised and our rich Varun, friends and Aryama be our helpers. 
Indra Dev is the one who completely destroys the enemies, is angry and defeats the enemies completely. They should protect our army. They should provide full protection to our army. (39)
O water! We get enough of you to get the food etc. we get. O water! You come in sufficient form and satisfy us. (3)
O Indra and Varuna! In the wars in which the enemies challenge us and the weapons fall on the flags, drive all the enemies away from the weapons and destroy them. 
Fire resides among the deities and the sacrificial beings. They nurture all the work as gladly as the earth. The most eligible agni of the yajna among the gods kill all the enemies. 
The thief is harmful to all and the pathiks are liable to be compatible with Indra's work, even though he destroys them. O Indra! Come loving our hymns and being influenced by the strange praises. 
Swaha to Rome. Swaha for the skin. Swaha for blood. Swaha for fat. Swaha for meat. Swaha for the nadis. Swaha for the hands. Swaha for marrow. Swaha for semen. Swaha for the anus. (10)
 O agni! You are beautiful and young 
By Adhwaryu, Sanskrit Somas go down from Dashapavitra in such a way that chariots and horses move fast in battle. 
Amongst these, I consider them to be the highest, who worship me with knowledge, and are steadfastly and exclusively devoted to me. I am very dear to them and they are dear to me.
I make your king enter the tree with his wife and people in the bed-bearing pur of the agni named Mitra to protect from the earth. May that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (1)
O tolerant of enemies and the lord of the world, Manu! I am your sacrificial servant. You come to me. O thunderbolt manu! You come to me and grow up. Think of me as your brother. Let's kill both enemies. 
O Indra! The circle that covered the wide and interconnected dyava-prithvi, you merged it into darkness. 
When the mind, restrained from material activities, becomes still by the practice of Yog, then the yogi is able to behold the soul through the purified mind, and he rejoices in the inner joy.
O wife of the welfare man! We open the sneezes and scaffoldings that have been tied inside you. May you give us happiness in heaven and do not be angry at us. (6)
We give ghee, wine, honey and food for this guest. Just as the Father gives the Son the ultimate welfare, so may this gem give me welfare. May this gem come to me from near the gods and give me happiness again and again and every day. (5)
In the folks, just as one bull is filled with anger and pounces towards another bull, so Indra kills the cloud and inspires the waters he can sustain towards us. Dhanaswami Indra Somras provides speed for the squeezing, quick donor and havya holder host. 
The admirable group of rashmis is like mitravarun's eye. Sun God is also the soul form of beings. The sun, which enters all beings, pervades the sky, space and the earth. (35)
Whatever one remembers upon giving up the body at the time of death, O son of Kunti, one attains that state, being always absorbed in such contemplation.
Witness all the deeds of humans and finally cross the sun desert seen in the sky and make it very watery. He crossed all the worlds located below the sky and became a benefactor with his friend Indra and came to the place of new house construction. (1)
A person who follows the 'hut' or 'ahut' (donation) is an insult to the deity and brahmins. He gains bad momentum in this world. (53)
 O Indra! Someras is strong, joyful, excellent, immortal, enemy conqueror and maddoy. Please drink this someras. 
O Indra! Don't kill us, don't abandon us, and don't take away our beloved consuming substances. O rich and mighty Indra! Don't destroy our pregnant and kneeling children. 
You are without beginning, middle, or end; your power has no limits. Your arms are infinite; the sun and the moon are like your eyes, and fire is like your mouth. I see you warming the entire creation by your radiance.
These famous, morning-making and bright-enhancing rays are visible in the east direction. Ushas gave birth to Sun, Agni and Yagya, which destroyed the downward and unpleasant darkness. 
Brahma pada is obtained through this dhenu. The swami of this cow is a Brahmin. (4)
With the desire to attain heaven, we offer havi to Usha who reveals the Sun. O rain-bearing Indra! You take your thunderbolt in your hand to kill the enemies who are desirous of war. Listen to the new hymns that I have composed. (3)
Jupiter destroyed the cloud with a firm face and bowed like a stone by power. The sun's rays drank his water. They irrigated more quantities by cloud as well as rain. 
I know the importance of forty-nine marutas. They call me their own. When the opportunity comes for the benefit of food, they should protect this grain for me. I call upon restrained maruts to protect themselves, just like the reins of horses. May they rescue me from sin. (1)
The evil enemy who encroaches on heaven obtained from virtue and walks on the wrong path, he should not be left out of the traps of King Varuna. Varuna's detectives emanating from heaven roam the earth. They see all the accounts of The Land, being a thousand-eyed. (4)
O Pawman Mon! Our karmic fathers performed yajnakarmas with your help. With the help of the mighty horses, remove the demons by destroying the enemies and be the giver of wealth to us. 
Indra dried up a huge river called Dhuni so that it could be easily crossed. Thus he easily crossed the sages who were unable to cross the river. They went across the river for the purpose of sage wealth. Indra did all this work in the drunkenness of the Somras. 
O agni! The bulls who fulfilled the wishes of Ashwamedha have pleased me in this way, just as the som mixed with curd, milk and sattu pleases you. 
O sing! You know the chirping of the hooves of your companion cows. Together with calves and other cows, you become one of many names. O Deeptishalini Dhenu.o! Come near me with the gods and come here and irrigate my cowshed, house and my homeowner with ghee and milk. (2)
The star moving towards the village is called a meteor. Where the fraction of that meteor falls, that state is destroyed. In this way, the tarika produced by Brahman destroys the state. (4)
Oh My God! You are the form of water. We consume you. You give pleasure (confirmatory) inside our stomach. Water should not be tuberculosis for us. Water should be divine, nectar-form and delicious, removing our common (everyday) problems (obstacles). In yajna, there should be an increase in the truth. (12)
O wonder form agni! Please be pleased with our yajnadi deeds and donate money to us. The force of the enemy curse is located in you. You complete our yajna like the sun. 
O Savita Dev! Inspire the host who wishes for this major and confirmation to have children like son, grandson etc. Give excellence to the host seeking this confirmation. O Savita Dev! After this, provide us with selectable fruits and more animals every day. (3)
O furious Ashwinikumaro! You go to enrich the poor house of the host. You must take the psalms to heaven by horses as sharp as the spirits and put the enemies of the man who give the greeting to sleep in a deep sleep. 
O hosts! Before the death of the pole like the vajra, serve the lord of the yajna, the one who calls the gods, the one who crys the enemies, the one who feeds the earth and the sky, and the agni with a golden prabha, to protect yourself. 
 Praise is inspired by the feeling of progress and thoughts. Praises of worshippers praise the gods in yagyas. In this way, the milk of cows is added to the somers. This somersa is very nutritious for everyone. 
 O Varuna! You pay attention to these praises of ours. You give us happiness. We pray to you to protect us. 
Ten fingers and seven ritwijas in killing the demons are like an armament and highly intoxicating mon. 
It is easy for the scholar to know the truth and false words. True and false words are contradictory. In these true and false words, what is real and what is simple, Somdev protects it and destroys the untruth word. (12)
O agni! Please put the host in the reading of the best successful works and scriptures. Sun and agni are dear. By his grace, we get a progressive son and grandson. By his grace, we attain extreme abhyudaya. (27)
Indra grows with the help of fathers named Kavya, Yama grows with the help of fathers named Angira and Jupiter with the help of fathers named Rikva. People who promote the gods and are related by the gods also grow. Among the gods, someone is pleased with swaha and someone is pleased through swadha. 
The givers sit in a high place in heaven. The horse donors are located with the sun. Those who give soma get immortality and those who donate clothes cross the full life by receiving som. 
For the sake of the same eternal god, do the home of a very sweet human being in the agni as the face of the gods. Give us certain food. 
O God of Agni! Destroy the demons with the fractal character with your sharp ness, the poison-like destroyer. You also burn them with your heating flames. (23)
O medicine called leprosy! Jeevla is your mother and Jeeva is your father. This man has been subjected to violence for not taking your name. I tell the man suffering from the disease your name as a mantra for pronunciation in the morning, evening and day. (3)
Kirti and Yash are going to walk ahead of him. Kirti comes close to him and Yash comes to him. He who knows in this way receives fame and fame. (8)
O Indra, unbearable by enemies! Come to us on call today. Just as the bad jamai arrives in the evening when called, don't do it to you. 
The thirty places of the sun are adorned and praise is given to the moving sun. The sun is adorned with its rays every day 
O happy Ashwinikumaro! You dwell in the house of the host like Manu to listen to sompan and praise. 
O Indra! Bring you closer to us horses named Hari, who join the chariot through mantras and reach the desired place. Your horses are long-haired. You come to our sacrifice and listen to our praises. (2)
O Arjuna Dev, the god of food! Devgan praises the gods and intelligent Brahmins praise brahmins. O Sudha's character Varun! You have created gods as brothers and those who know Atharva like our father. You establish me in the best wealth. You are our eldest brother and friend. (11)
We ask the ultimate end of the host earth. We ask from the navel of the host folk. We hosts ask you who is the force of horses' semen. We the hosts ask, what is the ultimate meaning of speech? (61)
O Indra! You should always wear the force of wealth that gives happiness and the rain of fruits to protect us. (17)
May this night near dawn eliminate diseases from our body in the same way that darkness is destroyed due to light. Aditya Dev came while calming the disease. Certain medicines also destroy the disease. (2)
On the way to the yagna sthal like a chariot, the sages hold the som in their hands in such a way that the load bearers carry the load in their hands. 
O wife! Just as the creeper wraps the tree from all sides, so embrace me. Just as you do not go anywhere near me wishing for me, so I subdue you. (1)
The gods took sweet, energetic, rajochit and consciousness-awakening water. The waters with which friends, Varuna etc. were anointed and the waters with which other gods anointed Indra Dev, we take those waters. These waters are hostile. (1)
The host speaks the praises related to the three Vedas and inspires Som to have the yajna-bearing and welfare hymns. Just as the cows go towards the bull, similarly the cows go to mix the mon with their milk. While wishing, Stota goes to Som. 
 O Indra! Space and earth follow your force just as parents follow the child and protect him. When you fight with Vritrasura, the enemy ready for war in front of you is also defeated. 
Just as pregnant women are pregnant, in the same way jatavedas are hidden in agni arrows. They are worthy of being worshipped daily by people who wear agni and are conscious of the yagnakarma. 
Indra had completely pierced the army of Vritra hidden on the earth and killed the world's grieving and horn-like warrior in many ways. O Indra! With the speed and force that you have, you cut off the warlike warrior with the help of vanar. 
O God of Indra! You remove the weapons left behind by the enemies from us and give us happiness. O God of Indra! May you give happiness to our bodies and make our children happy. (4)
They are both the protectors of our home and body. Oh my friend and Varun! You complete the deeds as a token of praise to the psalms. 
Every day, the ushas, which are produced again and again, in a regular and similar form, lose the day by day out of the life of all the mortal beings in the same way that Bhilani acts violence against the flying birds by cutting off their wings. 
O ashchinikumaro and the sun moon with equal wealth! Rain water with the ahirbudnyas that are located in the clouds in space. 
 O Mon! You are endowed with the great splendour of heaven. You are Charu 
 O Mon! You are divine and compassionate. You have been refined by intelligence. Just as a mother refines the son with water, in the same way you have been refined with water. 
Tejasvi Indra had subdued Shushna, Ashush and Kuyava for the welfare of his charioteer Kutsa and took the side of Divodas and broke the ninety-nine cities of SambarAsura. 
Ritdev is the lord of the strong water. Their praise destroys sins. The enlightening and bright word of praise of Ritadeva also enters the ears of the deaf man. 
O Angiras! You destroy the abductor Kshatriya. (6)
He who donates aj published from Dakshina in the form of Panchaudan, he enjoys heaven. He receives five shining gold postures and clothes and armor on the body. (26)
Indra, who subdues all, fights with the people holding arrows in his hand and bearing a trumpet and confronts the Shanru group. Indra, who conquers those who fight in battle, with sompankarta, bhujbal and with a bow, destroys the enemies with his arrows. 
Just as a chariot on the way powders the straws and blows them away, similarly the deserts who rain water raise the clouds with the wheels of their golden chariot. They are those who come to the sacrificial land of the gods, those who go to the enemies themselves, who make the motionless mountains, etc., and the bright armaments. They have subdued the wicked. 
O Sun God! Destroy our annabhava, sacrificialism, disease and bad dreams through the light with which you destroy the darkness and the ray with which you make the whole world shine. 
Those persons are yogis, who before giving up the body are able to check the forces of desire and anger; and they alone are happy.
O nirrriti! When you tie a man in iron chains or in a wooden step bond, he is bound by death in this world. There are thousands of causes of death like famous fever etc. diseases and demons, vampires etc. O creation! You should give good happiness to this man by coordinating with death god Yama and with gods, ancestors etc. (3)
In paradise with many streams of water, the present, the somcirans that are connected to each other and producing the people fall on the earth. Som has set those four rays under heaven. Those rays that rain water give a fill to the gods and fill the medicines with nectar. 
Salutations to the Ganas. Salutations to Ganapati. Salutations to the fasting. Salutations to the deva of the fast. Salutations to the wise. Salutations to the Budrimans, salutations to the diverse form. Salutations to the very beautiful. (25)
That Supreme Being surrounds all beings and all worlds. It pervades all directions. It surrounds all the sub-directions. He is unborn and immortal. All the wise know the self and include their self form in it. (11)
O Indra! You had cut off the head of the Namuchi demon by making a thunderbolt of the foam of water and conquered the opposing armies. (3)
Among the devas, Kuhu i.e. Amavasya form is the wife of Goddess Amrit or Water i.e. the follower. May it be able to give havya, get the havi given by us and listen to our call today wishing for our yajna. After this, he who knows our yajna should strengthen our wealth. (2)
O sun! Why are you hiding in space, you get rise. Come here with truth and love speech. This kind of Sun God illuminated the world. May the Sun God strengthen you as the destroyer of the nation. (1)
The Guru said to his disciple, "O Devdutt! In addition to the reputation through which the previous ritualistic sages have consumed this brahmaudan, if you consume this odan through cosmic prestige, then you will die without prestige and without the owner of the house. In response to this, the disciple should request his Guru - I have not consumed this Brahmaudan without being alien, nor have I consumed it from the front, nor have I consumed it self-oriented. I have embraced this idol through that reputation by being established in the truth. This Brahmaudan should have gone wherever he should have gone. I have taken him there. This odan is full of all organs, with all joints and with a whole body, in this way, the person who knows how to consume this odan is with all the organs, with all the joints and the whole body. (18)
O Maruto! When the learned Brahmins pour praiseworthy food into the three sawas, you are illuminated in the mountains. 
We should be unanimous with our people and we should have equal knowledge with those who do not speak favorably, that is, with unfavorable men. O Ashchini Kumaro! Both of you make us unanimous with yourself and others on this matter at this time. (1)
O burn! Send your wave of sweetness and pleasing to the gods to the same Indra who made the way out when you are surrounded by the cloud and who rescued you from the difficult grip of the cloud. 
O host! Knowledge arises from the source of the best wisdom. comes out of the psyche. It is emitted by the eyes. Let us follow him and do the best deeds. Let us get the world where ancient sages born in the past have reached. (58)
Hey Mon! You are the powerful and the winner of the enemy's wealth. We choose your friendship. 
This hand of mine is not only lucky, but also very lucky. It is equal to the medicine for all and will give welfare by touching everyone. 
Those who see everyone's yajnakarma give sons with food to the agni hosts. Agni goes happily to give such money, which is everywhere and is beloved by all. O agni! You bring food for the praises. 
Give us wealth and the ultimate wide house of Indra, Varuna, friends and Ariyama. The light of Aditi, which enhances the yagna, should not be harmful to us. Let us praise Savita Dev. 
Salutations to the south direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (26)
 The sage Angiras, who performed the yajna, reached heaven. The effect of the same went even higher. 
 Indra is great. He is the god of both material and transcendental splendour, the adorable god of hosts, the hater of enemies, the destroyer of enemies, the quick-going and the one who fights forcefully like an oxen. You praise the same Indra. 
You are great, detailed, good and powerful. O Shobhan! Hello to you, O visible! You see me, you give us food, fame and brahmavarchas. We worship you. (2)
Som nourishes the welfare body of Indra, from the same body Indra killed all the demons. 
O aschinikumaro! Your wife Suryaputri surrounds your chariot at night. At the time when you protect the devabhyilashi through yajnakarma, the bright food comes near to you. 
Indra's enemy strength increases through the praises of Indra. The divine earth-sky serve the same force. 
This squeezed somras is delicious, sweet, intense and juicy. No one can stand in wars in front of Indra who drinks it. 
The inspiring, pure by gold and the radiant Soma combines his juice with the gods. In the same way, they go to Dashapavitra by doing the word 'Nikhurta Som'. Just as the ritwijjamaman goes to the well-made and animal-like yajnagriha. 
O Rudra Dev! You have a bow in your hand. You save us from disease and violence. You are pleasant. (11)
O God! Hello to you. Salutations to god who shines like lightning and thunders. O Lord! Hello to you. O Lord! Hello to you again and again. (21)
O mighty Indra! In battle, you protect the Brahmins and the hosts who squeeze the Somras by all the means of defence. O blasphemous, thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink the somras of the median savan. 
The Supreme Divine Personality said: Every human being is born with innate faith, which can be of three kinds—sāttvic, rājasic, or tāmasic. Now hear about this from me.
 O Mon! You give nutritious food. At the end of midnight, water is added to the filtered som. The wisdom of the host orients the green somerasa towards the urn. 
The host who performs the meritorious and well-to-do yajna gives a greeting to you by means of the best sacrificial means praising you for the purpose of somayag, etc., go to the same Shobhanmati host and wish for his yajna. You wish us kindness while accepting our praises. 
 O Indra! The thunderbolt is adorned in your hands. You are praised by speech. You are strong, fierce and detailed. No one can beat you. 
 Yajna is encouraging. All the gods increase the yajna in the three days of the yajna. May our praise and words also increase that yajna. 
Gayatra is hidden in Gayatra and Traishtubh is pervaded in Traishtubham. Those who know the world hidden in the world, they attain eternity. (1)
The servings who walk behind with utensils in their hands are the chamas and adhwaryu of the yajna. (3)
Som rath pullers go in front of Dronakalash like a horse. Knowing both the births of the fast-paced and desireful Som Devas, they pervade yajna in this earth and in the world. 
O Indra! Teach us this knowledge, so that the desire of the psalm is fulfilled. May this cow with large trunks of the soil make us happy by dropping milk in a thousand streams. 
 Soma is immortal, indomitable among human beings and the protector of couplets and chaupayas. He is the king among men and gods. We worship those Soms. 
The best-performing Vaishnavar Agni created the lokas. The revolutionary anna created the bright constellations of heaven and the present beings on all sides. The undefeated and the sustainers protect the agni water. 
These people have become illuminated and enlightened with ghee. In this, ghrit has been sacrificed. Agni Dev is going to defeat the shanrus. So let them kill my enemies. (28)
May the sons-giving and admirable ushayas, full of ashes and cows, always remove the darkness. The usha grows everywhere by milking water. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
The sage, who knows everything, has put himself in the yagna in such a way that a horse gets into a cart. We carry the burden of that savior and protectorate work. We don't want to get rid of it, nor do we want to carry it again and again. The god who knows the way, walk ahead and take people easily. 
King Yudhishthir, blew the Anantavijay, while Nakul and Sahadev blew the Sughosh and Manipushpak. The excellent archer and king of Kashi, the great warrior Shikhandi, Dhrishtadyumna, Virat, and the invincible Satyaki, Drupad, the five sons of Draupadi, and the mighty-armed Abhimanyu, son of Subhadra, all blew their respective conch shells, O Ruler of the earth.
Smoke-like brown animals are for the ancestors. Animals with brown som properties like smoke and mongoose are for the ancestors. Animals sitting on the seat of black and brown Kush are for the ancestors. Animals skilled in agni knowledge are for ancestors. Black rashes are for animals. (18)
They entered the body with condemnation and praise, joy and mourning, prosperity of wealth and lack of desire. (22)
O Brahmin's cow! You remove the swift, wishful, fulfilled and blessing words of the abductor. (10)
O agni that is borne by flames and the best scholarly agni! Manu has appointed you to be a yagna. You worship the gods. 
O Arjun, amongst priests I am Brihaspati; amongst warrior chiefs I am Kartikeya; and amongst reservoirs of water know me to be the ocean.
O Yajnaswamy Indra! You cause the world to be strengthened by all means of defense and protect the dependents. O blasphemous, thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink somras in the median savan. 
O Gods! For you, Someras has been eclipsed in the urn. You are the first to be accepted in the yajna. You are the first to be called in the yajna. You protect the yajna. You give protection to yajnapati. You protect Vishnu. Protect them. Please protect the three evenings of you. (20)
O Indra! This chariot of yours is full of desire and fulfills the wish of your horse. O Sahartu Indra! May you and your call both be wishing. 
Savita Dev, who is adorned with adornments, completes the space with her swiftness and is carried by her horses, holds many human-friendly wealth in her hand. They establish beings and put them into action. They come here. 
O Jupiter! You and Indra are the masters of both earthly and divine wealth. That's why you give money to the praiseor. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
Indra shatters the spinach cloud of the kamdhenus. He had distressed the panis who stole cows with Dadhi's will. (6)
I bring cow's milk and also food and water. I have brought my son, grandson and wife. May my house be complete with all this. (5)
 Tejaswi Indra's donation is admirable in both the donors and in heaven. Indra's donation is superior and satisfying. 
Oh my god! The agnis in you are worthy of service through the mantras of Yajurveda and are going to associate with the gods. I send them towards my enemies. May the agni of the waters strengthen me. I destroy my enemies by the magic of the power of this mantra and through the weapon of water. (21)
O strong sun! Follow the dhaura (white) coloured calves to this place. May these drops of your milk prosper for us. You come here soon. This dark colored cow is yours. Hello to you.  (6)
The womb of the trees is Peepal, King Som and Amrit Havi. Crops called paddy and barley are the children of the sky and immortal due to the rain from the sky. (20)
The one who is protected by Varuna, friends and the god of Aryama, endowed with the best knowledge, soon kills all the enemies. 
 O Indra! O Mon! You are the swami of god's glory. You are the protector of gopati 
Just as Indra comes in the middle of the gods, so this bull roars and goes among the cows. Brahma praise the limbs of this bull with his mantra-loving Kalyani speech. (11)
O Indra! You do not separate the cloud for your own consumption and occupy Kuberadi, the holder of huge wealth. We know Indra very well because of his power. Those Indras attain the forward position among all the gods through their vrithravadadi form works. 
The human beings, the deathless, the messengers of the gods desirous of matter and the anaemonths are full of agni intelligence. 
The big dice generated in the prone country delight me as they scatter around on the gambling plank. The dice that brings joy and sorrow in victory and defeat gives me happiness in the same way as i get happiness by drinking the juice of somlata produced on mount Munjwan. 
O supreme force guardian! Man praises you for receiving wealth trapped among enemies. O deserters! A man who is interested in wealth, who praises you, including Brahmanaspati, receives wealth rich in beautiful horse and splendour. 
Shobhan Divaratri looks like two stages placed between the earth and the sky. Of these, the night stage is esoteric and the second day phase is clear. Their way of meeting i.e. kaal is attained by both punyamma and papatama. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O leprosy medicine! Just as a moving bull is superior, so you are superior in medicines. The way tiger is superior among wild animals. In the same way, you are superior in medicines. (4)
O hosts! All the people perform yajnakarma for the sake of the worthy of yajna, the enemy destroyer, the one who is a performer and the one who is always present. You also perform yajna for Indra because you are able to squeeze the somras and are knowledgeable. O Indra, you do sompan with the blazing agni. 
Indra is the only one among the gods and human beings who drink somras. They contain all the grains to drink the mon. 
O leader Aschinikumaro! Come with the help of the same fast-moving horses that come to hold you to the house of the shepherd host, wishing us. 
O conqueror of wealth, none of these actions bind me. I remain like a neutral observer, ever detached from these actions.
O Indra! We are praising you. You sat on these cushions. O heroic! Sit on the kushas and eat the purodash given by us. (3)
O Maruto! We praise the strength that is dependent on your fillers, weapons, garlands, chest ornaments, hands and feet, and the thorns, chariots and bows that are worn in them. 
O ashchinikumaro who walks as fast as the mind! Come to us by a golden-made chariot, consisting of horses that raise their legs forward. 
O stones! Destroy the sabotage monsters. Remove sin and remove the wicked. Give us wealth with all the children and build praises that please the gods. 
O angry Ritvizo! Give more amount of spinach and yajnasadhan food to Rudra, who gives the fruits of karma. I praise rudra, the god of heaven, and his followers, and the deserts who dwell between the heavens and the earth. Rudra, with the help of his heroes, i.e., the Maruts, drives away the enemies in the same way as the enemy is driven away by the arrows that live in Tunir. 
O man who harms the Brahmin! The water that avoids bathing the deceased and soaking the moustache, the same water has been fixed by the gods for you to drink. (14)
These cosmic agnis nourish all the necessary assets in the agnis like Garhapatya etc. These agnis please, pervade around and constantly desire food. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
 O Mon! You are a destroyer for public welfare. We admire you from the great hymns. 
The most glorious, deathless, abominable and worshiped by havya, let the agni bear the glory of this yajna. 
The person who knows this, he eats food with an annad mind. (2)
O Ashwinikumaro! Many poisonous food goes near you. Undainful and engaged in yajnakarma, the stotas serve you through eulogies. The chariot that showers wumhara water drawn by the psalms moves quickly between the earth and the sky. 
O god! You are a beautiful constant and a streak. We establish you for age, supremacy, agriculture and well-being. (21)
Som sits in his ancient place i.e. space, milking the madhakkara and divine lata. After this, the seer of all and groomed by the ritvijas, Som, quickly goes to the yajna to give food to the host, which is askable and based on the yajna. 
O Indra! You adorn your body by the green rays and the superior forms of the sun. When we are called by friends, you sit with us and be joyful. 
Those who speak of pitra truth, eater of charu, purodash etc. are sitting on a chariot with Indra and other gods who drink someras. O Agni, who sits in the yagna with those riches and excellent former men! You come before us soon. (48)
While doing the same esoteric work as a poet, when the kamavarshi Indra, drinks somras in excess and pays respect to him, he actually produces seven rays from heaven. The sun rays praised give knowledge to humans even during the day. 
Experience our praises of Indra, the summonable Indra in all wars. Indra is averter, possessed by giant sine and is liable to be oriented by praises. 
O Mudgal! Protect your chariot, which is helpless in battle, the mighty Indra. O Indra called by many! Protect us who wish for wealth in this famous war. 
O Mon! While extracting your juice, you are crushed with stones. Don't be afraid of that. You are as cool and capable as the moon. Please remove all your sins and deceit. (35)
When the devas expanded the yajna with the purusha form of fantasy, at that time the spring became ghee, summer as wood and the autumn as havi. 
O agni, sin seeker! Give us money with kanti-friendly and awe-inspiring power and go to the stoyas for the sake of welfare. 
O you mighty, beautiful chin and the guardian of the grains Indra! May you have your grace on us forever. O infinite rich Indra! Make us the best rich by beautiful and countless cows and ashes. 
O life and your air! Just as Taurus enters his cattle shed, so you enter the body of this tuberculosis patient. In addition to this coronation, hundreds of diseases that have been called for death should also be alienated from this patient. (5)
The wise somas who see the human beings hold water and spread in their place in the dashapavittra in the same way as it does when he enters the yagna to praise the gods. After this, they go to the characters named Som Chamu. The seven meritorious sages go to Som by stotra. 
Hey Ritvijo! I draw your attention to myself for the sake of protecting me.  Your attention is sacrificial, bright and revered. Just as cows eat grass and give milk with thousand edges, so may this meditation fulfill our desire. 
O Indra! Illuminate the place with your brightness, where the praise-dharini songs meet. The seven verses of the ancient and worshipable Mother Gayatri of the hymns are at the same place. 
Swaha for agni. Swaha for Mon. Swaha for Indra. Swaha to the earth. Swaha for space. Swaha to heaven. Swaha for directions. Swaha for subdirection. Swaha for upper directions. Swaha for the low direction. (27)
The flames of the agni, which are illuminated in the forest by being the most glorious, grow and shine like the sun in their path and become the most hostile and immortal like the wind and become the most hostile and immortal, making them aware of the whole world, moving towards the drugs. 
O Goddess Usha! You look like a kalyani and are getting adorned with detail. Your bright rays are falling from the sky. You manifest your form by being adorned and illuminated by great radiances. 
 O Mon! You must be powerful. You are holy and bright. We call you in the yagna. 
O men! Worship the agni with a bright crest because of praise, worthy of revolution and disgust. Let the agni come listening to this call of ours. 
O lord of the yajna, Indra and Agni! You accept this praise made in the Gayatri verse and come here. 
O son of strength, fire! A person who affects man through both verbal and mental mantras, o stuyamaan agni! I pray that my praiseor should be protected from such a person and do not make me the divisor of sin. 
Hey Ritvijo! This circle that appears in front is highly praiseworthy. In it, shobhan rivers flow and follow us. Apart from space, the earth and the sky, like the parents, arise from it day and day, and hold it. 
O Indra! You are the ones who desire heroes, the brave and the stable. Your mind is worthy of worship. 
O you are pure, Mon! With your help, we do many specific things in war. May friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Paradise respect us by wealth. 
 O agni! You hear a compliment and protect us. You hear the second praise and protect us. You hear the third compliment and protect us. You hear the fourth compliment and protect us. 
 O agni! You are given strength with good prayers. Kush's seat is laid for you in the yajna. You are everywhere. You are bright and great. We worship you with special pleasure. 
Being purified, Mon destroys all the demons with his green and beautiful stream in the same way, just as the sun erases the darkness through its rays. The stream of Mon is published. The green characters are illuminated with som being pure. Som pervades all the nakshatras through hymns of seven verses and the rousing radiances. 
O Brahmachari with upanayana sanskar! I have come to you with happy mantras and welfare deeds. I have brought you a fierce and prosperous force. I drive tuberculosis away from you. (5)
The liberator and wet armament, artradenu and matrishva i.e. wind should not be separated from me. (4)
O strong Indra! Those of your devotees who act against the host, you demote them with your protection glory. Take us also from the yajnamargo by which you took our ancestors in ancient times. Everyone considers you to be sinless and world-possessing. You give us the yajnaphal in the place of yajna and put an end to the evil ones. 
Just as birds fly fast towards their nests, so our angerless ideologies are racing to get to life. 
The sun, who sees poets and human beings, sees this earth and sky everywhere. The origins of the earth-sky water, which are happy, possessing water and herbs and attaining unity through the same deeds, live in different places in space, as birds build their nests separately. 
This stotao! Praise the inspired and the agni that runs on space and earth. They grow up with the dying-free gods waking up in the Vaishnavar Agni Yajna. 
O ashinikumaro with undefeated power, full of desire and charitable wealth! I call your chariot for a quick passage between the Psalms. 
O agni! At the time you burn the waterpart of the forest trees, your brightness is increased by the sun. You are illuminated behind usha with a special prabha. The psalms praise you for being praiseworthy. 
O Prajapati! You take this nation to heights, O Prajapati! Just as we are happy (people) by taking the weight to the mountain, so we are happy to take the nation to a height. Just as farmers clean food from the midst of cold winds, so by the grace of Prajapati, let us sanctify the nation. (27)
If pingalika i.e. yellow colored kumari attains spring, then she should be saved by rubbing it with her thumb from the oil pool. (16)
 O sun! O Varuna! Both of you are dev atheists. We worship you properly. Let us be friends of both of you. 
The unruly and very sweet som is built for Indra in the yajnashala. 
Oh my friend and Varun! The defense work of both of you is certainly the most massive. We get your consent. 
Who among the gods should be sent to death, and who among the people should not be made immortal? The host performs a huge yagna by the guardians and fruit givers of the gods. Because of this Yama does not send our body near death. 
 O Indra! You destroy all the hostile enemies. Defeat the enemies who obstruct. Give us a lot of fame. 
When prana i.e. suryak dev roars by targeting the crops when the rainy season comes, then all the creatures on the ground are happy. (4)
This instruction should never be explained to those who are not austere or to those who are not devoted. It should also not be spoken to those who are averse to listening (to spiritual topics), and especially not to those who are envious of me.
O adhwaryujano! Just as men are joyful and happy to meet beautiful young women, so go to fetch the same waters with which the soma mudit comes from. Wash the som with the brought waters and purify the dashapavitra along with the mon. 
Indra, who had dissected the uniform and wide cloud of water at the prayer of sage Trilok, had made a way for the same water to come out. 
Annad, who knows this, eats food through prana. (22)
He who knows this is dear to earth, agni, medicine and vegetation. (3)
Oh, horse! I know your remote body from the imagination of your mind. You go from earth to the sun in space. I have also seen your head rising up quickly from the dustless, pleasant path. 
O Maruto! For the enemy who considers himself more powerful than us or who condemns the mantra-related deeds we do, should be an angry armament barrier. Give anger to those who hate my deeds. (6)
O Arati! You fail the desires of men and always receive them as effects. (8)
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan in the direction below our residence, they do our violence from the downward direction. Those enemies should turn away from us and burn. We kill those magicians by returning their witchcraft to them. (5)
O Parjanya! You protect the satpurushas. Hello to you. You hold the water inside and do not allow it to fall down prematurely. You collect sin-destroying tenacity and throw your thunderbolt at sinners. May you give happiness to our body and benefit our sons, grandsons etc. (2)
O Indra of the sun! Your seven shining rays are attached to your chariot in the form of horses. They are the ones who bear you. (20)
The vishnu in whose three giant footprints the whole people are absorbed, that Vishnu is praised by the people because of his power in the same way that the people living on a mountain admire the power of a violent, wild animal. 
In our yajnagriha, the Jataveda agni is praised in the same way as the yajnakars speak the praises that give them happiness. Hosts serve agni. Those who eat trees, resort to forests and come soon like bulls. 
O god who bears fruit! Our praises, longing for gemstones, go to you for the sake of protection in the same way that a brave man aspires for a struggle. Just as the cows stay near Someras to beautify him, so our praises go to Indra and Varuna. 
O very intoxicating and revolutionary mon! You fall on Dashapavitra as stream to get the place of Indra worthy of worship. 
A good charioteer keeps horses under control. Moves to the defined location. It is he who keeps humans under control, taking them to the designated place. May our mind, which is established in the heart, which is ajar, which is moving, become full of welfare resolutions. (6)
The Brahmin throws his arrows towards whom his penance and anger, they do not go waste. Those arrows pierce The Sharu from a distance. (9)
O host! May you attain growth with the fruits of karma with men of equal birth and become self-respecting to get more semen to this wife. O host! After your death, you reach the heaven, which is called the fruit of good deeds. (7)
O God! If an invader, a money-grabber and a wicked person shows us the wrong way, remove him from our path. 
Salutations to Ban Dev. Salutations for located in the chamber. Salutations for the work. Salutations for the place in the respiration. Salutations to the speedy charioteer. Salutations to the heart-breaking of knights and enemies. (34)
They are going to conquer enemies in an instant with roar. The various methods of invasion are soon to be ready for war. They are also going to conquer organized enemies. By joining Indra Dev, let us courageously, forcefully take arrows in our hands and conquer the enemies. Live a happy life. (34)
O death! Salutations to the demons related to you, who hurt people. Salutations to the medicines who protect you from you. Salutations to the original men related to you and the cursed Brahmins. (3)
This man has attained misery and his life has been reduced. It has come close to death, yet I draw it, the point of nirtiti. I have touched it so that it attains the age of a hundred years. (7)
Water is medicine. Water is the destroyer of all diseases. Water is not a medicine of any one disease, but of all diseases. O patient! Water should free you from regional diseases like decay, leprosy, epilepsy etc. (5)
O sons of Sudhanva! You have made the dead cow without skin with your wisdom a new one, made the old parents young and produced from one horse to another, so prepare and come before the Indradi Devas. 
O Indra, who delivers from objections! Those who serve you with the said mantras soon become great. Those who serve you by laying the cushions are safe from you and get a house and food. 
Aditi Devi praises Savita Dev by obeying her command. Well-beautified Varuna etc. praise him. Friends and Araima praise them with equal love. 
O unbeatable Mon! You be the one to protect us in all respects. O King Mon! You remove our enemies. When som is drunk, the blasphemer should not become our master, so you are great. 
Just as the field is measured by taking the bamboo of measuring, the sages praised by the nearby sages, by pleading for the admirable Som and wishing for havan among the dying-free gods, divided the yajnapatra named Chamas into four parts by the sharp weapon. 
O Cupid! Indra and Agni ride on the chariot and bring down my enemies. O agni! Destroy those fallen enemies by revealing darkness and burn all the things in their house. (9)
At the time of Indra's birth, all the advanced regions, mountains, many oceans, earth and sky began to tremble with his fear. The mighty Indra holds the earth-sky as the parents of the moving sun. Inspired by Indra, air speaks the same words as humans. 
 O hosts! Praise Indra for your own interest. They are going to conquer monsters. They are going to be happy with Somers. They are successful, brave and intelligent. Whatever you are like this, praise Indra specially. 
Two birds, beings 
O Indra! The asura named Vritra had slept in the sky withholding the water. There was no limit to the expansion of the circle in the sky. At the time you wounded the chin of the same circle with a thunderbolt while doing your word, at the same time your enemy's enemy's swiftness expanded and your strength was illuminated everywhere. 
O agni! You should drink the energetic breasts and ghee-filled kharak with love. Please be satisfied with that. He is sweet. Please enter this sea house. (87)
Oh, this desireful Indra! We have heard that you are the one who cuts off your bonds, the one who gives hopeless strength and the motivators of your devotee. You come here and redeem yourself from the bondage of dogs. Why does a person like you bear the bondage of bhujdya? 
O Indra! You are omniscient and visible. You give us money. Give us the money you get from enemies too. 
 Som was holy. After that, he flashed the light 
O mighty Ashwinikumaro! Like you brave men, cross my wandering old-age and dying body with adversities to a favorable position in the same way as the water flows down to the place below. You have got a quick chariot like Ribhu. Your chariot, which runs as fast as the wind, has blown away the wealth of the enemies. 
O Indra! You are famous for your power and are called Vrithrahar because of killing the vritra. O Shur Indra! You make a rich person richer by giving him money. 
Agni for the benefit of all human beings should come from far away countries to protect us. May that agni receive our beautiful praises. (1)
Oh, this desireful Indra! By what means of defense will you make us rejoice and how will you give money to the stoes? 
O Indra! You are great, comprehensive, omniscient, fulfilling your wishes. Please come to the yajna with your fellow gods and increase our wealth and power. Please make our deeds huge. You are the nurturer of karma. You have been received in the kalash for the great Indra Dev. The book is your native place. (39)
 Our welfare is there. Divine water be beneficial for our drinking. Water is going to calm the disease. Water should flow in the form of nectar while giving happiness and peace. 
I wear the stone-grinding som, tattva, pusha and bhaga. I give money to the host who wears the haavya, who gives the gods a warm offering and who squeezes the somras. 
O mon mixed with cow's milk, curd, etc. with a shobhan taste! Beautify you sitting in your place as soon as a hawk bird. 
Hey, sing! You make us strong. You also make the lean and the unshadowed with a beautiful body. O you sing with a bhadravachan! Make our home well-meaning. Your great food is described in the yagna sabhas. 
O God of Agni! Near you, let us do penance that dries the body. We should not do this in any other place. Let us be older and have a better intellect by listening to the Veda mantras studied. (2)
O the conqueror, the knight, and indra called by many! May we receive new, desirable and comfortable wealth by your grace. 
At the time when Jupiter broke the armaments of the asuras by violent force, as bright as the sun and satiating as the agni, jupiter took over the cows at the same time. Just as the tongue feeds on the substance cut by the teeth, so Jupiter killed the force and got the cows. 
O kalash and dashapavitra made and bright soma! You slip into the belly of the gods. Som, who went to Indra's stomach and was called by the ritwijas, ascended the sun to the doloka. 
    O Indra! You are ashwapati and dhanpati. We speak prayers for you. Please listen to the praise of the inaudible sage while praising you. 
Kooth destroyed all these by getting divine strength from head diseases, eye diseases and diseases. (10)
O Indra! You are the giver of the desired result and rain . You mulling that cloud for our benefit. You have never rejected our prayers. 
O Indra! An army of demons stands before you. You also stand in front of that great and advanced army. O enemy defeater Indra! You drive them away by the ancient, with the keepable and the eternally helpful thunderbolt. 
Indra, who defeats the enemies quickly and the heroic, immediately accepts the puradosh of the host who comes near him and squeezes the Somras. Indra does not become pervaded, sakha or bandhu for the sake of a host who does not squeeze somers. Indra does the violence of the praiseless. 
O deserters! Give us food as well as a Son who praises you every day at the time of your coming. Give food to your praiseor. Give those who praise you in war, the wisdom of war, the power to give money, and the power of the enemies to be unbearable and intolerable. 
Among the gods, Brahma, the form of satyarupa, has held the earth up and the sun has held the doloka. The deities are located through the yajna and som is located in dolok. 
 O Indra! In black, red and multi-coloured cows 
O burn! Sagar is your husband and you are the wives of the king of the ocean. You all become the river form. All of you give me the help to remove that disease, so that I can be healthy. (3)
May all the gods give us such beautiful sons who wear golden ornaments in the ears and gemstones in the neck. May all the venerable gods desire praises and greetings immediately after our arrival. 
O the siniwali with thick thighs! You are the sister of the gods. Accept our promise and give us children. 
O one who invokes the gods in the yajna and O agni of knowledge! We have selected you as hota in this yajna today, that is why you must perform yajna and calm the defects of this yajna karma. You come to know this yajna especially with someras. (1)
We will praise Vishnu, who has not committed violence and is a behove of charity, unhindered by the observance. O Vishnu who goes alone in the struggle and gives money to the stoetas! Listen to the praise of the host who started the yajna in the past. 
Sources are the main means in the north direction. Autumn originates from the source. Anushtup verses originated from Autumn. Edsam originated from Anushtup. Manthi was born from Adsam. Ekvinsh Stome originated from Manthi. Vairaj Sama was born from ekvinsh. The head of all this is Vishwamitra Rishi. With the cooperation taken from Prajapati, we accept the source for the subjects. (57)
O Maruto! By the means by which you protected Turvash and Yadu and protected the kanva who wants money, we meditate on the same rakshasadhan to get money. 
O agni! Those who are the fathers are the true ones, the devotees of the havya, the ones who drink the soma, those who sit on a chariot with the Indradi devas, the doers of god, the first, the ones who are after them and those who sit in the yagna. Come with those fathers. 
When the agni is purified with food and holy water, then the agni is irrigated with water. It makes water strong. It is a pleasant, continuous flowing, youth-making and fertile for the world. (11)
O Agni! In the yajna that you protect from all sides, the demons etc. cannot do violence. The same yajna goes to heaven to satisfy the gods. 
O Mon! Please get an increase for your Sombel Indra. Indra is a wealth vetta (knower). They should be satisfied by drinking you. Please get an increase for their drinking .. Please satisfy your friend host. May Som be well-being. Let us complete the yajna and these praises being done for Soma with our intellect (intellect) soon. Please send you the favored (dear) money for us. By the grace of agni, we should be truthful. May we attain immortality by the grace of Indra. We bow to heaven. We bow to the earth. (7)
In the struggle fought by the brave men, the Indra who is appeased by the word 'marut' and the man who is made the keeper of the protective wealth, be our protectors with the help of indra maruts, the only one able to give the happy fruit. 
The seven streams like Ganga etc. take the glory of Indra and the splendor of the heavens, the earth and the space indra. O Indra! The sun and the moon rotate again and again to illuminate the substances in front of us and to create our reverence. 
O aschinikumaro! By the means of which you protected the beast, especially pleasing by pakth, adhrigu and somras, by the same means of defense, come to us immediately at a speedy pace and treat the patient. 
Brahmagyan for Brahmins, Rakshan for Kshatriyas, Rearing for Vaishya, Service for Shudras are justified and appropriate. Darkness for thief, heroic for hell, sin for impotent, purusharthi for purchase, adulterer for work are suitable for proof of good speech power. (5)
May the yajna fulfill our wishes. May the characters of the yajna be the ones who fulfill our desires. May the devas, the devotees, the yajna-ayatavari, the parjanya and the stota all wish us. 
O aschinikumaro! At the time when you went by a three-wheeled chariot to ask about Surya's marriage, all the gods supported you and Pusha accepted you as a parent. 
O unsettled Mon! You go to the stota to give intoxication and protection to the gods, upgrading them and fulfilling the desires. 
I pray to Rudra, who is a workman and a man with maruts, to satisfy me with good food. Just as a person who is troubled by the sun enters the shadow, so I will serve him to enjoy the pleasures given by Rudra without sin. 
Please the south direction on us. Indra is the overswami of this. Snakes walking crooked are the protectors of this direction. Pitra is the weapon that controls the wicked in this direction. May my greetings be pleased to its overswami Indra, the protector to the serpent walking on the trample and to the ancestors in the form of ordnance. The enemy who obstructs me or the one I hate, O Indra adi devo! I keep it in your molars for your devouring. (2)
O Desertion! Praise us and make us see the clouds. Velocity water currents flow here and there. Streams of rain water worship the earth. Different types of crops like barley, wheat etc. should be produced separately from rain-fed land. (3)
Shatrattu Indra made Paravarishta, the son of Agra, a partaker of the hymns. 
O host! You should live in your house as bright as gold, without a little, with sons skilled in doing work and one who dies from old age. Agni is familiar with the meaning said in this sukta. This is what Som Dev has said. The elder husband, Savita and Indra, have said the same. (8)
O agni! I put a havi in your mouth like a dhrit in a khuch and a som in a spoon. You give me the son of Shobhan with food, wealth, best praise. 
O Indra and Agni! It comes to earth before the unsused usha-footed species. It moves around without a mirror, saying many words from the voice of beings. Thus it has gone thirty steps further. 
 O Mon! You brahmins, poets 
O hosts! You see Som from all around with the best interest. You follow a policy for hosts. Som is in the middle of the water. It is crushed and moulded with stones. (2)
O squeezed Mon! You cross the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair and tap into your place in your vessel for Indra. 
Become an air body and enter our hearts and give us welfare and happiness. Let the air increase our lifespan. 
Would have, the consciousness givers and the spinach agnis have originated to protect the fathers. We will be able to get money that is highly revered and winnable by being possessed of the havya. 
O Asan Dev! You are pleasant and able to sit happily. You are the original place of force and pleasant. You are able to sit comfortably and are the original place of strength. (26)
The hosts who serve the agni become famous by receiving money from the service of agni and by the famous son- grandson. 
Worthy of prayer with heart and water watering the world, the devas go to the seven yagnas. Those leader forms, born in the yagnas, the two gates of the yajna-like deities should come with the body in this yajna of ours. 
Hey Mon! Your juice is filtered in dronaclash and divided into spoons, etc., containers and goes to Indra as quickly as a hawk bird. 
The agni that nourishes humans and beautifies the yagna through the cooking of food gives birth to the agni like a new child. 
 O agni! You publish the organs. You increase energy. Everyone accepts you. Who else do we consider to be the best god besides you? 
The ghee will go to the cow gods with a golden and divine quality. O unworthy cow of violence! Do not commit violence against your shepherd and go to heaven. (11)
O Fire and Mon! You have both become equalizers and have held these shining constellations in the sky and have redeemed the rivers containing the sinful part of Indra's killing of brahmanism from manifest guilt. 
O Lord Indra! We pray to you that leave all the former people and come near to us and drink somras here with your horses. The hymns created by the Psalms and the praises that seek your friendship call you. 
Vayu Dev should collect these cows of ours, Tvashta Dev should wear them for nutrition, Indra should say loving things towards them and Rudra Dev should treat them to increase their number. (1)
O Devas! Inform this child about the practice of dharma with yajnopavit sanskar. Give him the knowledge generated from studying. O Devas! Protect him from the misdeed in the form of not performing rituals. You keep the child alive for a hundred years. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro who suppresses desires! We call upon you because you should drive your chariot at the same speed as the wind. Hey Ritvijo! You prepare beautiful hymns and auspicious food for the mortal and soul-taking Rudra. 
O agni! Asang, the son of the Plyog king, overtook all the donors by donating ten thousand cows to me. Just as the lotus drain comes out of the pond, so the desireful and glistening animals came out of the goshala of Asang. 
Indra said, "O Maruto! When I killed Ahi alone, where was your strength to live together? I am a great and great one. I have destroyed all the enemies by the lightning skilled in the violation." 
O Maruto, Indra, Devagana, Varuna and friends! Just as a cow is full of milk, so do you make my deeds fruitful. You have come to the yagna by chariot after hearing our praises. 
A man who holds semen strengthened by the medicinal of the mountain, the virtue of heaven and the power of the organs insemination like a leaf in water. (1)
O man alienated from the God of death, that is, a man without the violence of death! You won't die. You won't die, so don't be afraid. In the place where peace work is done, the people there do not give up their lives and do not achieve unbearable fainting. (24)
A man who serves agni by samidha, by ahutis, by vedadhyayana and by salutation salutation while performing beautiful yajna. 
Oh my friend and Varun! The dynamic host who goes before you is the messenger of the gods, his head is adorned with gold and receives intoxicating som. 
The four categories of occupations were created by me according to people’s qualities and activities. Although I am the creator of this system, know me to be the non-doer and eternal.
 O Indra! You are amazing and picturesful. Somerus is squeezed from the fingers for you. You are offered the holy Somerus. You come to the yajna and please drink someras. 
O Rudra Dev! You are a welfare form. Like medicines, there are free from disease. There are hairs to give freshness to the body. May that form of you be pleasant for us. (49)
O Ashwinikumaro! In the morning, the more burdensome and moving horses should bring you from all sides in this yagna. O kamayars! This sommerus is for you to drink. Be pleased with the sompan in the yajna. 
Let us be the masters of horses, chariots, confirmation and permanent possessions on our own. They both present horses and wealth in front of us with innovative means of dynamic dev defense. 
There is no basis in this world, who performs havan without the permission of such a scholar. (11)
O Jativeda Agni! You separate our enemies from us. O agni! Separate the enemy forces who have hatred against the gods. 
We, those with little intelligence, serve you with a very learned, a beautiful and good-paced agni to see, with a beautiful and good spirit. Let the agni who know everyone tell our greetings to the immortal gods and worship the gods. 
I can lift up the earth from one place to another. I've been to sompan several times. 
May the leaders of all the people and goddesses find god's sakhi bhav (by His grace). May all the glory of the world be attained (by his grace). (By his grace) may all the glory of the world be shaukat. (By his grace) find the glory of the world. Swaha to God. (67)
May the trees and flora of which are soma the king and which appear hundreds of types due to the vipak of juice, semen etc., those vegetation destined by Jupiter as the medicine of those diseases should save us from sin. (1)
The one who pleases the gods by the havi stays away from sorrow and sins and the stotha scholars stay away from old age. Unlike these two, those who do not give charity and praise receive sin and sorrow. 
The agni of which the Psalms praise the great deeds of the agni are as bright as the sun and hide in their brightness. The young and holy-duty agnis cover everyone with its light and destroy the demons and their cities. 
Where did virat's two vatsa originate? One of them originated from some folk. Which of them originated from the earth? Both of Virat's vats came out of the water. I ask you how you have understood them. (1)
In the Shatrattu and Shanruhantas, the sharishta Indra is known in two ways. O Indra! Come near the som we have squeezed with the help of horses named Hari. 
 Indra, Aryama and Varuna - we should get the bright protection of these three gods so that we can defeat the shajurus. 
O agni! You tie the hands and legs of demons with rope etc. and bring them here. After this, Indra should cut off their heads with his thunderbolt. (7)
Dakshina Yajnaadi completes the divine kamo and is a part of devo puja. Devas do not complete the works of those who do not perform yajna. Those who give holy dakshina and are afraid of slander, they complete all their work. 
Just as thundering perzanis give birth to clouds, so do horses and cow-benefactors generate wealth to give to indra. You are the protector of the hymns since ancient times. Let the rich people not suffer us by becoming unspoken. 
Indra, who gives money to the poor and helps the helpless, who gives the desired results to the praising Brahmins, whose chin is beautiful and who is the protector of the hosts who perform the sacrament of Soma, O men! He is Indra. (6)
Just as the child skillfully reaches his father and mother easily, in the same way you both reach near the oceans. It is certain that even before this, devgans know Brahma. (13)
O agni! While attaining this gem, you should get prosperity through havans. In this ignited agni, attain good intelligence, welfare, children, eyes and animals through the knowledge of Brahma. (35)
Indra first went to the milch cows with sweet milk, then got the four-stage godhan for the sake of milk. Indra, who was generous, held the elusive asura hiding in the cave and walking in space in his right hand. 
The mantras of Samaveda related to the praise of Indra and Agni, the mantras of Samaveda related to Som Devta, the stotra named Mahanamani and Mahavrata and the organs of yajna are located in the rice left after the home, in the same way as the womb is located in the stomach of the mother. (6)
O dundubi! Fill the earth and the sky with your voice. Animals located in many ways should hear your chants in many countries. In this way, you should drive our enemies away from far away through Indra, the god of war, and his followers Maruts. (1)
O you have been called by many, indra, the vidhata of yajnakarma and the very sacrificial priest! Come to us with the help of horses you all like. Come before us by horses that are not stopped by gods and demons. 
Hey Anjan! You are the womb of the ocean and the flower of electricity. You are the life blood of the air, the eyes of the sun and the water of the sky. (5)
You are strong. Force for us. You are Ozwan. Keep the oz for us. You are the menu. Cheer for us. You are tolerant. You have tolerance for us. You are struggling. You fight for us. (9)
This vasha is in the form of heritage of these gods. The person who calls this vasha avsha becomes the target of bhava and sharva's arrows. (17)
Surya Mitra sees humans from all sides with Dev and Varun Dev. The sun is beautiful. Heaven takes that form of them. The second is black and green form. The sky holds him. (38)
O Indra! You give us a son with horses, a chariot owner, a man of heroic men, with hundreds and thousands of properties, surrounded by welfare servants, of vipras and heroes, and of serving all. You give us annual and strange money. 
O Sun God! You are like a boat, you are the one who sees everyone, gives light and illuminates everyone. (19)
O Mon! You come. Please sanctify this yajna. You give us plenty of glory like gold, horses, cow, money etc. We offer this sacrifice to you. (63)
Saraswati Devi is pregnant with Ashwinikumars in the middle of the vagina. She is Ashwini's daughter- in-law. She holds Indra Dev. With the juice of water, Varun Dev reinforces Indra Dev from Sama. In the waters, Saraswati gives birth to Shriman Raja. (94)
 O Mon! You go to the kalash making the same sound, are taken in your hands just as the mother goes towards her children speaking love words and takes the children in her hand. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You make us rich. You destroy the malice. Indra is your friend. You unite with them. 
 O Mon! You are pure, energetic, omnipresent and omniscient. You come to us running. You make us rich. By your grace, let us live a superior life in all the worlds. 
O you are able to address by praise and scholarly Indra! Take the money of the enemies and give it to us many times. 
O rice! You are very wide in heaven, which is received as the fruit of virtue, and spread as a thousand components. May our father, grandfather etc. seven men be satisfied by you and our sons, grandsons etc. seven generations may be pleased by you. I am the fifteenth to cook Brahmaudan for you. (19)
The intoxicating, home-grown, dynamic, worthy of yajna, the leader of the yagnas, the present, the seeker and the human-bearer in the yajnashala, the sages who possessed the agni in humans and longed for agni were pleased with the praises. 
Oh, God! The husbands and wives who squeeze the somras with the same thought, purify it with dashapavittra and add godhudha to it in the third suvan. 
 O Indra! You have a reputation in heaven. Even the particle particle of the whole earth cannot surround you, cannot pervade it. You are capable of pervading the whole world. 
O air! With the help of your hundreds and thousands of horses, come to our yajna and be happy to drink somras in this yajna. Oh, God! Always do our well-being by means of defense. 
 O hosts! Indra is always progressive and prosperous. They are the most revered and great mighty. They are not suppressed by anyone and are hostile. No one can suppress the one who makes Indra favorable to him with yajna. 
O friend and Varuna! May we get the said result. May we get the praiseworthy result that protects us from fears and diseases. We experience wealth gain and prestige. Salutations to Hyulok, the vast and abode of all the gods. (6)
A thousand men worshiped Indra together and twenty praised him. A hundred sages had praised Indra again and again. The havya grain was placed on top of indra's sake, that's why indra showed his authority. 
 O agni! You are as moving as horses. We are singing ooh stotras. This ooh stotra is heart-touching. Your success story is going to increase. 
O all praiseworthy and madhupanikar Ashwinikumaro! At the time when your sister Usha mornings you to come and the host praises you for getting food and strength, the eternal, diverse movements of both of you, the beneficial and especially the revered chariot of mankind already runs. 
The creator of the body, the one who considered himself unique and Dhir Vishwakarma was the first to produce water. After this, he built the dyava-prithvivi moving around in the water. Vishwakarma made famous by strengthening the ancient and last parts of Dyava-Prithvivi. 
O teacher! Give only Indra the squeezed somras as a havan. May Indra protect us from the malice of all the victorious and enthusiastic enemies. 
O agni! Samvatsar, sages and earth etc. elements increase you. By all this, you become illuminated with a body full of light and illuminate the four directions of east and four directions like southeast, that is, direction angles. (1)
 Where in humans can satisfy Indra? May they be satisfied in our yajna and give us wealth. 
O Fire and Mon! Sing the mighty and give the strong horse to the host who worships you today with praise words. 
Varuna, the friend and the one who sanctifies the body of agni, who perform yajna of agni three times in each day, should give this yajna for our water to be filled with fruits like rain, etc. 
Oh, the agni! We increase you by the committees and the abrasives. O very young agni! You become more luminous. 
Just as Godohak is called to milk a cow, so on every occasion we invoke Indra to protect ourselves. (1)
O successful, blessed and ancient Mon! You flow through the pores of dasapovithra made of sheep's hair. 
"O rivers! Your waves flowed down by the gambling rope. Don't touch your water ropes. Sinless, welfare and contemptless rivers should not grow at this time." 
"The devas come and wear the vajra for the slaughter of the cloud. They rain water by penetrating the clouds with the maruts. They hold the shobhan water in the rivers. Wherever they see water, they soak it up to rain." 
O God of skin! Be pleased and equip us with star and nourishing semen, by which we may produce sons who carry stones in our hands and are devout of the gods to prepare the heroic, the karmic, the mighty, the powerful, the somras. 
O night! Follow us, no one who says to commit sins should be able to hinder us. Let the evil-speaking word not hinder us. O night! Today, thieves may not be able to steal all our cows. The wolf should not be able to abduct our sheep by force. (6)
Twelve nights worthy of the fast of Yajnatmik Prajapati prevailing in this Taurus are said to be present. In those nights, the one who knows Prajapati-like Taurus is the possessor of this fast. (11)
 O Indra! You are awake and powerful. Due to Mon, your reputation is very wide. The SOM reached in your stomach also receives praise. 
O Brahmin's cow! You are going to destroy your kidnapper with a thunderbolt in the form of flesh. (7)
In the yajnashala, Virat, Emperor, Vipra, Lord, Daughter-in-law and Bhuyan agni abhrit form water. 
O Rudra! Greetings to your armies with profaning and scattered hair. Salutations to your Chandeshwar armies, whom everyone salutes. Salutations to your armies eating together. O God, may we be well-equipped and fearless by your grace. (31)
O Swami Jupiter! With Indra and Prajapati Dev, what you have promised. I call that dev army to that war. O God is called! Give victory to our army, do not give victory to our enemy soldiers. (9)
O great part of the waters! I inspire you towards the ocean. (6)
Special scholars immediately produce the leader agni in the yajna. The agnis that carry the havya of the yajnakars, vishwapatis, pleasers, sweet words and yajna-containing agnis are installed in the house of human beings. 
 O Mon! You walk on the path of truth and superior. You know the yajna and the host very well. 
O Maruto! We started running away trembling with the fear of this balvan indra. We have taken away what we prepared for you. You protect us. 
Lightning shines in each direction and winds bring clouds. Clouds induced by wind rain on the earth. (8)
Indra adi dev somaras wishes for the squeezing host. They don't indifference. They become lazy for extremely alcoholic som rasa. (3)
 We chant mantras to refine the infant Soma of the host heaven. Soma is born from the mother of truth. Brahmagyani worships Soma. 
 O Mon! You are glorious and shower happiness. You defeat the wicked and drive the enemy away from us. You weaken, destroy all those enemies who are going to harm us in war. 
 O Indra! Just as you are happy to listen to the prayers of your sons in your divine land, please be happy by drinking the sweet divine Someras. 
 O Mon! You sit in the forest. You are the gaming. You go to Dronakalsh while making a sound. 
Oh, God! Protect us among all the people and make the one who wants to condemn us sharply. 
O o o ladies! You are able to remove all the enemies of the body. Please remove them. O o o ladies! Please free us from all sufferings with your ability. (99)
 Som is pavitra, apoorva and a poet. Mystics and human beings refine you. You spread indra's fame among the three savanas. Som gives satiety to Indra. Soma flows to increase the friendliness of the air. 
O Indra! Follow and protect us. Those who have faith in you, you protect them from enemies. You do everything for the welfare of the person who serves you by giving a greeting. 
Thirty-three gods always protect the treasure, O Devo! Who knows the treasure you protect today? (23)
O The Guardian of the Grain Mon! Sing for the Psalms, climb the back of heaven, wishing to give horses and brave children. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Understand well the things that I say as praises to you and accept them in the yajna. 
The Supreme Divine Personality said: They speak of an eternal aśhvatth tree with its roots above and branches below. Its leaves are the Vedic hymns, and one who knows the secret of this tree is the knower of the Vedas.
 Somers is squeezed and refined. He showers semen superior to heaven. Somerus provides nutrition. 
Yama said, "O Yami! I don't want to mix my body with yours. The one who has sexual intercourse with his sister is called a sinner by people. Oh, beauty! Make a pact with a man other than me. Your brother doesn't want it to work. 
O Indra and Varun! The seeker of wealth and the great host always calls upon both of you to protect himself. Listen to My praise together with the two of you, the Maruts, the Dolokas and the Earth. 
The habitat of the clan of these germs was destroyed and the houses around their houses were also destroyed. Apart from this, the germs that were in the seed state were also destroyed. (5)
Pushadeva, who showers the same juice as Soma, knows the Shobhan hymns. Beautiful pushas pour water on us and irrigates our goshala. 
The elusive asuras and scholars do not hinder the first stable and famous kamo of the indra adi devas. The earth and the sky do not become a hindrance to the gods with the people. No one can bend the high mountains on the earth. 
Some are helpful in the yajna by uttering many verses and some people sing the sammantras in the Gayatri verses. A priest named Brahma explains atonement and performs various functions in the Adhwaryu Yajna. 
O Indra! You hit the vritra with a thunderbolt. All the maya of Vrithra, who performed the anti-yajna work, ended with a terrible waza. O Dhanaswami Indra! After that you became more powerful. 
O Sujatha and the human palika Ushadevi! Give us the part of your light that you give to men at this time, and grant us the name of Savita Dev and call us sinless for the arrival of the sun in our yagnasthans. 
I hold the som in my navel, the basis of the yajna like the navel. Our eyes meet the sun. I milk the streams of Kavirup Som. 
Taksha had made an iron vajra for me. The gods complete the yajna for me. My service is as fast as the sun. People come to Me because of the work I have done in the past and what I do in the future. 
O Som, for the pleasure of the gods! Give us a new form of force and light everywhere. 
 O Indra! You established the sun in heaven. Just as the hosts reveal agni, so do you hosts! You sing Brihatsam and express happiness in Indra. Indra produced confirmatory elements 
Just as he walks in the yajna, in the same way, Indra's green colored chinbuk i.e. chindi runs to drink someras. When Chamas is filled with somersa, Indra's theududi starts twitching to drink it. At that time Indra cleans his horses. (4)
With what means will these ever-growing friends protect us? How will their defensive instincts be fulfilled? (1)
I consider Agni to be the invocation of the gods, the most charitable, the abodeable, the son of force and the all-knowing like the meritorious Brahmin. Agni yajna is capable of editing and possesses the desire of devpuja. They wish him by following the abrasive of their flames. 
May Dulok give us happiness by calming the defects caused by our cause. May the vast space and earth give us happiness. May the waters and medicines of the oceans give us happiness. (1)
Oh my friend and Varun! Vasishtha, the famous, the meritorious, the yagya-doer and the one who listened to eternity, speaks praises for you. Both of you who are doying good deeds protect their praise and have been completing their yajna for many years. 
This is the fifth vyan season. (5)
O Indra! This earth without hands and feet has grown only by the actions of the gods. You killed the shushna asura around the earth so that everyone could walk. 
Prana is called Vayu, the swami of motherland space. The same air is called prana. There is only a difference of name between them. In that life, which is the basis of the world, the world related to the past and born in the future remains dependent. In this way, everyone is distinguished in the soul. (15)
O agni! You are the ones of truth and of the great and the rich food. Give me the son who defeats enemy armies. 
O Indra! Sin-destroying waters are spread all around. Fill the indestructible duct of these waters with water for us. O Indra! You are the lord of the chariot. Save us from the enemy and make the victory of the cows very quickly. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Like the warlord knights, the deserts have joined horses in the chariot with beautiful gates by your grace and roam around in different realms. O well-groomed friend and Varun! You rain down from the sky for our welfare with the Maruts. 
Whoever knows this, two months of Hemant Ritu from Dhruva direction protect that man. Earth and agni become compatible with him. (15)
Hey Rudra! Don't kill us and don't abandon us. Let us not be in the grip of your anger. You make us a partaker of the yajna praised by the beings. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
The destroyer of enemies, containing a hundred lumps and powerful, originated before all the herbs. May this kind of fear protect us from fears in all directions. With the help of that darbhamani, I will defeat the army that my shanru gathers. (10)
O Indra! Make me the chief of equal persons, the defeater of enemies, the destroyer of opponents and the lord of cows and especially beautify. 
The great Indra, who has been called many times by many people and by great deeds, destroys the vritra with his right hand. 
When the wise som goes to the hymns, he makes a variety of journeys like the chariot of the knight. The wealth of the Mon gods gives to the stota. Som becomes a subject of praise in many yagnashalas for the growth of the wealth he gives. 
These enemies are bound by the traps of death, so I give them to death. I bind them and lead them to powerful messengers of death. (10)
 O Ashchini Kumaro! Please take refined substances. Worship is done for you who come near the yajnasthan. You become distinguished as the day comes. Please give prestige to the host. 
Yami - Hey Yama! The God who produced children has tied both of us in the womb of the mother in the marital bond. Who can defeat the fruit of that God's deeds? Both the sky and the earth know the karma that makes our couples in the womb of Ttvashta Dev. For this reason it is not untrue. (5)
O son of strength and mighty agni! The praise of the sage who showers the hymns of me worships you. May we praise you and by your grace may our beautiful children get a long life. 
 O agni! You are always going to hinder enemies. You can't win monsters in war. You consume the meat-eating demons with your swiftness. No enemies are left with this weapon of yours. 
O agni! You are truthful, glorious and visible to all the world. We city dwellers hold you for a good mind. You are famous and first venerable. Human beings praise you with divine qualities since ages. (111)
The devas made Pashupati, who was wearing a bow from the corner of the west direction, to perform this ritual. (8)
The Sun also drives horses to obey Indra and pleases everyone. All the gods are afraid of the mighty Indra. The terrible water-yearn, the daily breathing and unhindered Indra, speaks words from space as tolerant. 
O lord of the glory and the workman Ashwinikumaro! Today you are on earth and listen to the praise group by which Atri serves you. 
That knowledge is said to be in the mode of ignorance where one is engrossed in a fragmental concept as if it encompasses the whole, and which is neither grounded in reason nor based on the truth.
Kushas are laid in the yajna to get the fruits of beautiful children. In the form of speech, the stotra of yajna is pronounced and in the yajna in which the stone crushing Soma makes the same words as the stota, Indra is seated there. (6)
Ritwij mixes somras with cow's milk and curd in a variety of ways and tastes it. They mix Mon with honey. On the rise of the water, the ritwijas go into the water in this way, sanctifying the soothing som, which drips and satisfies downwards, in the same way that the animals go to the pond for bathing, etc. 
 The hosts go to the top of the mountain to bring Somvalli etc. samidha. They perform yajna with many deeds. Indra knows the purpose of the mind of the host who does it. Then they are ready to go to the yagna with other gods to fulfill the wish of the host. 
O house made of stone! You are mine, who wants to destroy me from the corners of sinful directions, let him perish. (7)
O bride! Make the medicine, the river, the white and the forest with children and protect your husband from the wicked. (7)
O God! May your friendship be as seamless as that of a curd-filled and porous skin pot. 
O God! I want to please you. O bright god! I want to praise you. I don't want to praise any other god, because they don't give happiness. O god who gives the dwelling! Give that money to the pajra who knows the hymn and the sammantra. 
We perform the yajna of the aromatic and confirmatory trimbyak. O Rudra Dev! Just as the plum breaks from the stalk, so also free us from the bondage of death, not from the un-death. 
The God who goes in all directions to consume the things that are mixed in the struggle separately, whose power is manifest, who knows what is worth knowing and despises the enemies of the host who praises. 
Being sanctified by ancient food, covering the forms of the earth that exploits all with its brightness, covering the yajnashala that protects from all the three seasons and in the som yajnas located in the waters, they go on to say the words in this way, just as the stota hymn is spoken. 
The kamo that the stotas describe when the Somras go to Nikud, Indra has done all those deeds in ancient times and at this time he also does other karmas. Just as the husband marries the wife, Indra alone destroyed the enemy cities. 
Hey Ritvijo! You sit on the chariot in a special way with indecisive praises to go to the yajna, especially the bright, especially the full and praiseworthy Vayudev. May the wives of the dev wives, who touch the gatishalini yajna, come to our yajna. 
O Indra and Varuna! The ten kings who did not perform the yajna together could not fight sudas alone. The praises of the ritajis, who wore the haavya, also succeeded and all the gods were present in their yagnas. 
Oh woman! I protect your fate with the mantras of Asit, Brahma, Kashyap and Gay rishis, just as women hide their wealth, clothes, etc. in their homes. (4)
 O Indra! You know how to remove obstacles. You piously resolve objections. You can remove all objections similar to the disease preventive 
O Sun God! You are up and rise and publish to me with your speed. People who hate me. Let them be in my control. I will not be subjugated to them in any way, O Swami of the inhabited Sun! Your might is limitless, you complete me with animals like cow, horse, disguise etc. in such forms and establish me in the nectar that is in the supreme soul. (6)
O thunderbolt Indra! You are slowly going with these horses, more wealthy, smarter and hassle-free. 
I salute the supreme God who is born out of the labor of penance and pervades all the worlds and who has made only Somalata the best herb. (36)
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as Haridrava birds fall on water, so you fall on somers. Just as the buffalo comes towards the water, so you come to the somras. You come together with Usha and Surya in all the three sawans. 
O seeable Indra! You had destroyed darkness with the help of Usha and suryakirans when you heard the praises of the Angiragotrian sages. O Indra! You flattened the advanced parts of the earth and strengthened the original region of the sky. 
Oh, Usha! Those who ask you where King Varun lives, tell them, "The varu, who gives shelter to all and stops the enemies, lives on the banks of the Gomti. 
O Indra, the one who is the one who is one of the enemies! Whether you are in the bright place of heaven, whether in a place in the middle of the sea, whether you are in some place on earth or in space, come to us. 
All these constellations remain under its control with the moon. (7)
O medicine produced for the sake of yajna! Those who condemn Me may be one and ten, that is, eleven, but you make My voice sweet. Because you are sweet. (1)
Knights always see the supreme position of Vishnu as the light in heaven. (5)
May the great earth, heaven, be pleased to protect this yajna. Money Please provide plenty of money to the thirsty people. (32)
Indra, who has all the power, has perfected both the earth and the sky with His glory. Indra, the destroyer of enemy cities, the destroyer of the vrithra-destroyer and the Shanruparabhavakrani army! You give us more quantities by collecting the animals. 
O Indra with green horses! The remote place is not even far away for you. You come with the help of your horses. O strong-minded and working indra! This yajna has been done for you and the stones are placed on top of each other to squeeze the som when the agni is out. 
Fire enters them by decorating yellow wood. Just as the bull runs towards the cows, in the same way, the agni goes from all sides towards those woods, saying great words. They light their flames while doing balpradshan. Just as a fierce animal that cannot be caught turns horns, so agnis drive flames. 
First of all, hiranyagarbha had the supreme principle. From that creation stemmed. He was the only foster. He held the earth. They hold the land of heaven. Apart from them, we should make a law of havi for which other god. (4)
O agni and rain! You protect our sacrificial work. O god of adornment! Listen to our gentle praise. Out of you, the food produces food and agni produces the womb. You give us offspring-rich food. 
We say what our father, Rahugan, said that the praise given to the sacrifice of Somras is received by the maruts. At the time of the vrithravada concluded by Indra, the marudganas were present and praising Indra. Thus he assumed the name "Yajnapatra". 
O yajnaswami agni! I greet you. O rebellion! Accept the salutations you have given to the yajnakarmagoer. O scholar and agni worthy of yajna! Bring the scholars to our yajna and sit on the cushions that are laid out to protect us. 
God is rich. By his grace, we are the masters of wealth. O Swami! This type of you are called by all people. In this business you become our forwardrunner. (5)
It was only after Indra had drunk the Somras that he had stunned the vast earth-sky and became dynamic and frightened Vritra, running like a deer. Indra, while hiding and breathing, hit the vritra without covering it. 
 The sun is dynamic and bright. They rise and become located above. First of all, they attain earthland 
 O Indra! You are the king of all. No one can stand in front of your anger. By worshiping you, enemies lose. We also inspire our brothers and sisters to worship them. 
 O Mon! You are sweet. You have been duly refined to the gods.  You are drunk as a powerful instrument. 
Worthy of praise, strongness, sacrificial and unstoppable by enemies, Indra has annihilated hundreds and thousands of enemies. 
Fire stabilizes our body with the same enthusiasm with which you destroy enemies. May we be happy with your desired grace. (40)
Those who wear the nectar of the earth and those who wear charu, purodash etc., rivers and humans, let them be a cause of happiness for me and free me from sin. (4)
Let me be like the navel of wealth. Let me also be the navel form in men who are like me. (1)
O human agni! You look at the human violent monster and cut off its three heads. 
Frogs speak a pleasing voice to the clouds after sleeping for a year like a hymn. 
The Brahmin who follows the glory of Som while being clean, people call him Shobhan Praja Wala. The one who makes his mind friendly to Som is also called lucky. Hey Mon! You drip juice to Indra. 
O you who are near, lord of the people, called by all hosts, the god of agni with glorious and welfare hymns! We have installed you. 
O Indra! You are the doer of many shortcomings and very bright. We know that the present wealth everywhere is yours. O enemies Indra! So give us money. Don't let the desire of the psalms you want to remain unfulfilled. 
The best praises of me, nabhanedishta, who are tired of praising, go near to Indra. O agni with wealth! Our praises go close to Indra. O agni with wealth! Listen to our praises and worship our indra. You raise the son of my Manu, who performs the Ashwamedha Yajna, with praises. 
O agni! Bharata's sons- Devashraya and Devvata- had created you with the power of adornment and wealth by Aranimanthan. O agni! Look at us with enough money and be the bringer of our inner being every day. 
O mortal of knowledge! Lord of the chariot, let us receive the wealth that is eaten by you. That wealth never ends, just as the sun never disappears from the sky. O Maruto! Make us happy by making us rich in unlimited. 
O frogs! On the day when it rains more, walk around the pond with the words like this, just as in the yagna called Atiratra, brahmins recite the mantras around the Somras. 
O Indra! You give us a son of a virtuous praise, a believer of gods, of greatness, of broad, serious, wide root, of distinguished knowledge, of powerful and hostile. You give us the yearly arr bizarre wealth. 
Remembrance to the pitars (ancestrors). May all the pitar who were born the earliest, the pitars who were born later, those who passed away, those who are virtuous, all those pitars should get this offering. (68)
O air! Crushed by stones, desired by all and comes in a bright somras pot, and is filled with pure light and you receive it. In humans, the mon is worthy of yajna. The same is given to you among all the gods. To come to our yajna, go away with the horse appointed in the chariot and have mercy on us. 
O you are pure, Mon! Your grown and radiant juice is especially beautified and makes the world visible by pervading it with its brightness. 
For the Brahmin sages who study the vedamantra-forming rasa made by the sages about the pavaman somdev, saraswati milk and intoxicating som dohti. 
He who knows this, he brings food seasoned with meat for the guest. (7)
When they receive the agni of darkness that stops the trades of the world like a rope, they are illuminated and reveal to the world with bright rays. After this, the agnis meet the increased and the deafening stream of food is desired and rise up and drink them with flames. 
While squeezing, Som crosses the Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair and drips and enters Indra's heart and goes to Dronakalsh. 
O glorious agni! You have called upon the gods who wish for Havi. You inspire them to stay in your place of residence. O God, who eats purodash, drinks the ajya with honey juice and protects the worlds! You give money to this host. (3)
Agni is its sitting condition and both Ashwinikumar are its raised condition. (19)
Audvaryu friends! You wish to perform indra related yajna. How are we going to praise the enemy, the violent Indra? Indra, the eater of the shanrus and the protector of friends, bows down to the enemies. 
Hey Mon! The praises pour out to give me food and increase my heart. You give us a son with a good power. 
O Indra! Let thousands of your types of protection measures come to us in thousands of ways. O Lord of the Ashes! May we get thousands of your famous food grains. Let the thousands of kinds of money you have come to give us happiness. We should get thousands of animals. 
O agni! You are the first. You invite the gods. You are Yajwan. You are worshiped and established by the priests in the yajna. You were ignited in the forests from time to time by the sages like Apnwan and Bhrigu etc. You are fantastic. (15)
Listen to our praises of the ahirbushya, the ajakapada, the earth and the sea. May visvesvardev, who is the one who enhances the yagna, the subjects of the mantras called and praised by the meritorious sages, protect us. 
He is superior to Indra Namur. O Indra! You are also excellent at the causes of death. (1)
O you who worship men, Mon! You tap for the warriors who defeat the enemies. 
For the sake of welfare, I call for life-giving and non-angry vibrancy and herbs called Arundhati. These herbs are upward-growing, flower-rich and honey-rich. (6)
May our yajna give happiness to the gods. Hey Aditya! Make us happy. Let us receive the same grace of you who is going to make a poor man rich. 
 O Indra! You are very rich, who does great deeds and has a horse named Hari. Protect us. We are your own. 
O the conqueror and the rich indra! After that you became angry and destroyed the danuputra Vrithra in the sky during the day. 
The povman and uttam som go before the waters, the secondary voice and the rays. Shobhan ordnance and varshak som struggle to get food and are squeezed by the ritvijas. 
O agni! You are playful and fast. Be stable, fast and powerful. You are going to bear everyone. Please give happiness to all of you. (44)
O servants! Just as the sun's rays meet the sun, so you enjoy all the riches of the sun. Indra has generated wealth by power. In the future also he will generate wealth. We will take their wealth equally to the ancestral part. 
This is the hymn! Increase the Lokpalka Rudra day and night by these hymns. We should be inspired by the wise Rudra and perform the havan of the great, spectacular, unadorned and soothing Rudra with prosperity. 
O god! You are full of kulwan and ghee. You live in the house of habitable earth, Rudraganas and Basus worship you. You are countable. You should secure your good fortune to increase. Both of them should sit on this yajna site in the form of Ashwinikumar Adhwaryu. (2)
O Supreme O Swami Indra! Install me to gain age and great force to the seeker. This peace-making host should remain awake when he receives the force that destroys the obstacle for a long time. Get it old. (2)
O Indra! Your strength is worthy of selection with intelligence. Your force intensifies the karma-like thunderbolt. (1)
O Indra! The condemnable person should not come to us. Let the money hidden in wide directions be ours and the enemies will be destroyed. 
O Usha, who reveres the peaks of the mountain! The Angiragotrian sages, by your grace, immediately received a group of cows and destroyed the darkness by the venerable hymn. The divine praise of the sages of netarupa angiragotrian sages was true. 
Please give us the current direction above. Jupiter is its swami, the white-colored snake is its protector and the rain water is its evil preventive weapon. We salute its swami Jupiter to the white snake and the evil deterrent weapon rain water. O God of Jupiter! The enemies that hinder us or those we hate, we keep them in your molars for your devouring. (6)
O dundubhi! Cry out to our enemies and give us strength and strength. You make words interrupting the enemies. Drive away such people whose sorrow is the cause of our happiness. You are the face of Indra. You give us perseverance. 
Hey Ritvijo! Make the goshala. That is the place for humans to drink water. You must sift the armor of human beings, which are many and wide. You make strong vessels of iron and strengthen the spoon so that the water does not leak. 
When those suns are elevated and established in heaven, they reveal all forms. Agni is light from the sharp light of those suns. They reveal the desired fruits in the third world i.e. Duloka. (11)
The lonely sun, which goes as soon as the mind in the way of the sky, receives the wealth kept in many places. May the bright and beautiful-armed friend and Varuna be in our cows while protecting the milk as a delight and an elixir. 
 O sun! You are the most prominent of all planets. You are published. You spread your rays in all the worlds and grow food in all the bhuvanas. Your rays illuminate everyone. These rays hold water in their womb. 
Oh my friend and Varun! When the meritorious zealots speak different hymns, some of them speak hymns praising the agni etc. gods and for your purpose we speak true mantras, then do not go away with the other gods. 
Praise indra, who has beautiful right and left hands, who are masters, do good deeds and do thousands of deeds, and who has hundreds of properties, breakers of enemy cities and is stable in yajna. 
The tongue of the Brahmin is the pratyancha of the bow, the wood of the speech bow and the sacred tooth is the arrow due to penance. Inspired by Brahmin gods, these bows and arrows pierce the gods.   (8)
They adorn the host and increase themselves along with obeying the gentlemen, who praise Indra by giving him a greeting. Indra, the giver of opinion, rains through the clouds from the sky for such people. 
Ashwinikumar Divya, Bhishgacharya (physician) is our friend, Indra Dev's vaidya and poet. They are the best minds. Indra holds health for Dev. Hota Devas performed yagna for Ashwinikumars. Please accept Ashwini Kumar Havi. Please do yajna for them. (7)
O Sun God! Your chariot is going to benefit everyone. Through that chariot, you move from rise to sunset. Seven rays and infinite light are the enhancement of your effect. (6)
O ever-moving and powerful agni! All the drops of fat ghee drip for you. O agni played by the poets! You come to the yagna with great brightness. O meritorious! Consume our vegetables. 
Those who know tuberculosis, who are sanghactic, destructive and wordless, went far away with tuberculosis and were destroyed there. (14)
O Manu! The man who serves you, O one who has unconsolidated power like a thunderbolt and puts an end to enemies! That man always increases his force completely defeating enemies. You are the one who creates strength, defeats and gives strength. With your help, let us defeat the asuras and their enemy gods. (1)
When present in the yagna of the agni of knowledge, the devas get into their own right. We don't know the hidden form of agni. In this yajna, friends, Aditi and Surya should tell us without sin in front of the sinless agni. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as four bulls, then make this cow have children, otherwise you will be considered ineffective. (4)
Those who are mixed in cow's milk-curd, etc., for the intoxication of the gods like a beautiful mon walking horse, we will please them by the praises. 
O Indra! When you add your asshas called Hari to the chariot, there is no one better than you. There is no one like you who is the master of the beautiful and beautiful asses. 
O woman! We remove from you the sin that you have become infertile due to the disease caused by it. This sin disease should not happen to you again, so we take it to a distant country. (1)
O the famous sharpener of the body, the master of food and the powerful friend and Varuna! Just as yajna is protected by mantras, so do you protect the earth through yajna. You sit on the chariot located in the yajnashala. 
O agni! May my praises and sacrifices always increase you. You always know our friendship. 
O God of praise! You are the people, the one who hurts the demons. The protector of the host's house, the householder, the great and the one who follows the world. You always live in the host's house. 
O the deserters! May your names, chariots and horses be powerful. Your fingers carefully hold the reins of the horses. 
O Indra! Which somras will make you happy to destroy the wealth of the Shanrus, the revered, the truth, and the most powerful? 
O stunning Ashwinikumaro! Sahadeva's son Kumar Somak Raja, who satisfies you, is of greater status. 
O ghost! Let your mind and your senses not abandon you. Let no part of your life be lost. There should be no disorder in your body parts. Blood juice etc. should also be in full quantity in your body. No part of you should be separated from you. (24)
O nastya aschinikumaro! Come to this yagna to drink the sweet somras with thirty-three gods, make us long, destroy our sins, stop our enemies and be with us. 
O Adhwaryu! You bring the holy Soma, crushed with stones, for your sons. You sanctify it for Indra Dev to drink. (31)
The medicines that end when the fruit is ripe should be of essence to us. The force in my body should also be of essence. The essence of milk related to water, it should adorn me with the essence part located in crops and herbs. Dev Varun, the officer of water, purify me with bath. (56)
 O Indra! You defeat enemies. You are powerful. Please come. Somers has been gifted to you. You come and illuminate our yajna in the same way as the sun illuminates the space world with its rays. 
O Adhwaryu Adi Ritvijo! Squeeze the soma for Indra and refine the squeezed soma in all ways through the dashapavitra. They should listen to indra mujh stota's praise ishta call and know respectfully. (1)
O Varun Dev! You repeatedly talk about the opportunities to get money. Don't ignore these behaviors. Otherwise, they will start thinking of you as moneyless. (7)
O Indra! You are the most important, the giver and the truth. You make the psalms with splendor. O you of great wealth, the son of strength and the great Indra! We choose your worthy wealth. 
Hey Mon! The stotas who meditate on you and wish to hear your intoxicating words and praises walk in the habitable yajnashalas. The hymns that control the mind praise you and sing soak you with your milk. 
"O Maruto! The skilled wisdom of the honorable host comes before us to serve you by a psalm capable of serving you. So you come before me the brilliant host. The Psalm honors you by aiming at these best deeds of yours. 
Yami started saying - What is the benefit of having that brother, despite whose sister remained husbandless. What is the benefit of having that sister, through which the brother suffers. I am speaking these promises with a libido. Mix your body well with my body 
Som veer holds the armament in both his hands like a male. Som was made of charioteers with the desire to go to heaven in connection with finding cows. Motivating the force of Indra, Som is sent by the wise who want to perform yajnakarma and mixed with cow's milk. 
Those same agnis are called in many yagnas, which the splendor and the hungry host burns well and takes place in the yagnas which he circumambulates. 
Indra, who drops the waters protected by the sun on the earth, shatters the cloud like an angry bull. After this, Indra Somaras, the swami of wealth, gives light-filled brightness to the host who squeezes and provides quick havi. (8)
If a Brahmin's cow is given tribulation, it becomes like Shiv Shankar, full of anger. If its blood is extracted, it is going to give death to the blood extractor. (9)
O ghost! You receive the sun through the door of the eye. You receive air through the Spirit and the heavens and earth from the wild senses and receive space and water. If you want to go to these places, then go or enter medicine etc. (7)
In a nation where the wife of a Brahmin is stopped by unconscious, lotus and lotus fibers are not produced in the Pushkarini of that nation. (16)
O Stotta! May you inspire Aryama, Jupiter, Indra, Saraswati in the form of speech and Savita Dev with velocity to give us wealth. (7)
We praise the sun, who fills words with its glory in the directions of knowledge, with beautiful wings, who gives light with our rays and the protector of the worlds. (2)
Just as food is given to the hungry, so I offer powerful, hastening, great in virtue, a person of praise and an unwavering nature to Indra, to choose praiseworthy praises and a large amount of food given by the former hosts. 
O agni! You sit on top of the yajnavedi, knowing that your abode is built, your flames are as vimal as the rays of usha and the flames of the sun. 
O Indra who conquered through truth! You are our darling. No one can cover you. You are the swami of heaven and your expansion is like heaven. You accept us as your beloved. (1)
O daughter of the inhabitants! We don't know anything right, left, front, back. If you lead Me through the best way of my immature knowledge and without patience, I will find light without fear. 
Agastya said, "O Indra! Do you want to kill me? Go with your brotherly maruts and enjoy the parts of the yajna well. Don't kill us in the war." 
O men! Without whose help the people do not get victory, the one whom the people call to protect themselves while fighting, who became the representative of the world and also make the stable mountains, etc., fickle, is indra. 
O Brahmanaspati! Please protect us. We should not be badly affected by cunning, ignorant people. (30)
 O Indra! The praying host first of all requests all the gods to drink someras through the stotra. Rudra's son Marut also praised you as the first man. 
O agni! You are able to control the demons etc. who destroy the womb, so spread both your hands and destroy the demons who destroy the womb through them. Protect the agni by spreading your hands while providing money for the son etc. and the people and their enjoyment. (1)
 O Indra! You are going to destroy Vritrasura. You plough your horse named Hari in the chariot. You are rich and strong. You come here from heaven with beautiful deserts. 
 O goo! You are being called near the yajna place. You make a sound. You are going to give yajna fruit. Both of your ears are gold. 
O balputra jatveda and danshil agni! Protect us with words that protect your crests and progeny, and protect the hymns who give praiseworthy words. 
The thieves who want to take away our clothes, cows and goats and those who want to take away the heads of our horses with a rope, drive them away. (5)
Aditya should complete this child with money. O Agni, grow yourself and increase this child too. O Indra! You make it-containing. The nourishing trinity should be dependent on it. (4)
Going everywhere, without awe and helper is of Marutsena Indra. Bring the horse called The Dynamic Hari to the very rich Indra near the squeezed Somras for pleasure. 
Thus, I have explained to you this knowledge that is more secret than all secrets. Ponder over it deeply, and then do as you wish.
May holy water water water our bodies. The water that goes on our body should be received by the enemy. O earth! I sanctify my body with holy water. (30)
O Ashwinikumaro! You win cows and horses. You kill the demons and subdue the diseases. You drink the soma of the host together with The Sun and Usha. 
The god who knows that Brahman worships Jyeshtha Brahma, who knows that Brahman for sure, he can be Brahman. (24)
Indra is capable of bringing back the cows abducted by these wives! These hymns are going to illuminate your qualities. This Mon has been squeezed to your delight. O Indra, the destroyer of enemies! We call you to drink this mon. (6)
O mighty! Remove the hard and pungent red fever away from me. (3)
Gandharva, situated in the sky, worthy of yajna, with a color like the sun and destroying the anger of God, make us happy. He is the swami of the earth and the worlds, the only salutations and the giver of pleasant happiness. (2)
O agni! The enemy who wants to kill us while we sleep, who wants to kill us while we are awake, the enemy who wants to kill us while we are sitting and the enemy who wants to kill us while we walk, O Agni! You burn the shajuras coming forward to kill us by meeting the gastrointestinal agni and becoming equally loving. (2)
O Indra! You have removed the blocking clouds of water and have defeated the asuras like Vritra etc. and hid their wealth on the mountain. You killed the violent circle of the three peoples and immediately after that you raised the sun into the sky to see the world. 
O asur! Inder is the one who stabilized the shaking land, cut the wings of the winged mountains and made them immovable and stabilized space and the sky. (2)
You must understand the nature of all three—recommended action, wrong action, and inaction. The truth about these is profound and difficult to understand.
O Taurus! You live in the north and hide while circling all the bhuvanas. At that time, all the people are surprised due to darkness and say that where has the sun gone? Indra is the best to entice creatures. (22)
Those who are Brahmanaspati, who are the guardians and eaters of food, who are the masters of the past, the future and the world, the criminal of those angry gods and the violent of the learned Brahmin, O Rohit Dev! Make the weak by staggering and tie it in your loops. (7)
O Maruto! Wake up. We call upon the unborn maruts, which have been advanced by the hymns, like the great water. 
When do the intelligent and water-like slanted deserts glow? The deserts with shravanankarta and holy spirit come towards our yajna. 
We pray for the golden and revered wealth of the mighty and well-intentioned Savita Dev, the wealth that he himself gives to the host who gives the havan. The great Savita gives us that wealth. 
O God of Agni! Destroy the demons with your glory and kill them with your deadly glory. Burn those demons who suffer by killing with your flame. Those who satisfy yourself with the lives of others, burn such demons with your flame. (13)
 O Mon! You are the best mountaineer, holy, admiring and admirers. Your juice stream is springing in form. 
I see the sun coming and going into space, the protector of all and the never-to-be-sad sun. The sun comes and goes again and again between the eyebrows wrapped with the rays that go with it and retreat. 
O Kamini! Just as Garuda flies from his place of residence and bangs both his wings on the earth, so I suffer your heart. Just as you do not go anywhere near me wishing for me, so I subdue you. (2)
The wise and the adhwaryu who knows the sacrificial method installs this indefatigable fire on the altar and protects it through various efforts. Those who serve the fruit-giving fire with the desire to get the yajnaphal, they are visible in the form of the sun to them. 
 O Indra! You give us protection from all that we fear. You destroy those who hate us. You destroy the violent. You protect us. You are powerful. 
 O agni! You are the almighty, the direction and our Swami. We call on you in war. 
The flames of agni go holy, bright, upwards. Those flames move upwards from samidha and go to heaven. The flames of agni are the best symbol for the host. (11)
Fire dried are present in ancient trees, live in the order of origin in the new trees and are embedded in the plants produced at the same time, the herbs give birth to flowers, fruits, etc., without the conception of anyone else, only by becoming pregnant with the contact of agni. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O Lord of wealth and protector of Swadharupa Soma Indra! The Somras, who is extremely possessed of wealth and the most glorious because of the bright glory, may the Somras give you happiness when you are free. 
Just as nectar and truth are established in the gods, in the same way, this gem made of varan tree gives me fame and opulence and adorns me with glory and glory. (25)
O patient! Due to not using food properly, the regional diseases like tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy etc. that have arisen in your body, I know the medicine in the form of doctor's barley etc. Through that medicine, I destroy your regional diseases. (6)
Mons produced on the mountains and dripping juices are prepared in the yajna in the same way as the efficient horse is decorated. 
 O hosts! Fierce enemies like wolves also bow down in front of Indra. May indra be pleased to accept our prayers. May Indra bless us with wisdom and wonderful intelligence. 
Hey Wayne! You are like a bird with golden wings, flying in heaven, the messenger of Varuna, the present in the form of a bird in space instead of electric agni and the filling of the world. Everyone sees you with love in their hearts. 
 O agni! We lightly worship you. We bless you with a holy, shiny illuminated light. 
In heaven, the gold boat tied to a rope made of gold keeps moving. There is the origin of the deathless Som. Leprosy has originated from that Som. The medicine of all diseases, it is located with leprosy Som. O leprosy! You destroy all diseases and demons. (7)
Protect god, deserts and all beings in this place. Thus this person became diseaseless. 
 O Indra! Somers is prepared for you. You drink this. You rain it, you grow it. You accept it for pleasure. You introduce us to this. We are in your shelter. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Wherever you are, listen to this call of ours. May you get the best-wisher to go near you. 
Atharva Rishi, who performed the yagna for Indra, had already known the route to the place of hiding the cows stolen by the panis. When the sunrise happened, the poet's son Ushna had received those cows with the help of Indra. We worship the imperishable Indra. (5)
A Brahmin's husband can only be a Brahmin, not a Kshatriya and a Vaishya. Surya Dev suppresses five types of human beings - Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaishya, Shudra and Nishad. (9)
Hey Mon! These seven directions are the refuge of the sun, protect us together with the home-doers who are the seven ritwijs and Aditya, etc., who are the seven suns. Hey Mon! Drip the juice to Indra. 
Whenever there is a decline in righteousness and an increase in unrighteousness, O Arjun, at that time I manifest myself on earth.
O Lord of power and ruler of sages Indra! You be successful. You alone killed demons that no one could attack or conquer by the violence of enemies. 
Coming towards my yajna, Ashwinikumar reveals the brightness of his chariot with his pure radiances and takes his horses across the desert to get water, making the various lights unlimited. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The food grains are installed for you. You come quickly to devour our havya. Listen to our call, despising the call of our enemies. 
Look at the dragon who supports the bull and is lying in the limits of the war. Mudgal won hundreds of thousands of cows in the war with the help of Druna. 
Savita and Vayu inspire wealth and confirmation for me. May these two bring happiness and strength to my body. In the body of this host, both of them should wear diseaselessness and radiance and save us from sin. (5)
This speech-like cow has created the world. This creates water. By attaining unity with the medium, it is one-sided with the sun, quadrupedi with directions and ashtapadi with interdirections. With directions, vidishas and sun, it becomes Navpadi. It combines with the undivided soul and creates Bhuvan. Due to this, clouds rain. (21)
O agni! Just as the charioteer ploughs horses in the chariot, you plough the horses in the chariot to invite the devas (to the yagna). You have been called to the yagna since time immemorial. (4)
O hosts! I call for your welfare the most glorious, sinless, guest of hosts and the gracious agni. The Jatveda agni treats all beings from human beings to gods as friends. 
O Ashwinikumaro who destroys the pride of enemies! Just as the horse moves with the reins, so hear the praise of the shywash that squeezes me to somers, and come away. You drink somras in the morning together with Surya and Usha. 
Give us Savita, Bhaga, Varuna, Friends and Aryama for the wide happiness we ask for. 
 Oh my god! Agni is revered. They feed us. He is a householder, undivided and visible from a distance. Please all of you to reveal the agni from the forest churning. 
O brahmachari! Breathe through the air, the soul of the breathing creatures. You live in this world, that is, live, do not die. I equip you with the productive sins of disease and eternal life separated from tuberculosis. (9)
When our mantras travel towards Indra, the kalash word does. At that time, a yellow substance moves and makes the same word as the bow. (6)
The early and ancient somas like the horse have moved to a new place to illuminate the sun. 
 O Mon! You are a money giver. Please give us the best money. You live above the earth. Your juice is squeezed by crushing with many stones. 
The host who wants to perform the desired yajna of the gods cannot be subdued by his karma, no one can remove him from a place and is not devoid of sonhood. The desire to worship the gods defeats the one who does not perform the yajna. 
Due to the wrath of assistant Indra, let us defeat the enemies who want to fight. Indra should destroy sins in such a way that he does not remain. (1)
O host! You serve yama, the lord of the fathers, through the purodash, etc. Yama takes many virtuous doers to places of happiness, makes the path of many easier and the destination of all human beings is one. 
O agni! Give the share to Indra, who rained out of these ninety-nine thousand kinds of substances.  You know all the ways of the passage of the gods. You place the Kauravavanshi Shantanu in heaven in time. 
O workman friend and Varun! Hosts praise your praiseworthy birth in the earth and sky in order to gain all the powers. You give the desired fruits to your godly host and accept the deeds of praise and greetings, etc. 
The sound of agni thundering is like the sound of thundering of cloud. They soak the earth like a cloud. The rich agni illuminates heaven and earth and shines between them. (21)
The patient and the meritorious seven Angiragotrian sages had discovered the cows locked in the mountain. Knowing the cows on the mountain, they took the cows out of the path through which they had entered. He received all the cows as a means of yajna. Indra, knowing the deeds of the Angiragotrian sages, honored them with a salutation and entered the mountain. 
O agni! You enter the house of the people who desire the yajna as a form of yajna. O prajapalak, enrich us. O agni! Accept our speech. 
O agni! You are the best ears. You listen to the praises we make. The sacrifices we offer in the agni for the gods. You bear that havi. You come with friends Dev and Aryama Dev in our morning experts. Please sit with them on the seat of Kush. (15)
The god has ensconced, the protector of power and the friend of the strongest and the one who has great speed and Varuna. 
Men and earth please you. (14)
The man who does not give the vasha sought by the Brahmins as very dear, the same vasha makes him childless and other animals. (25)
Those who commit violence leave Varun's enmity in fear. Those who cause pain to humans do not cause them pain. Sinful people renounce the conduct of sin toward them. 
O Indra! All around us are bandits who are void of yajnakarma, those who do not believe in anyone, who do the opposite deeds of Vedastuti and devoid of humane behaviour. O enemies Indra! You protect us with the shuruta maruts. 
We remain in the law of both the destroyer of sins, the beautiful movement and the heavenly Sun God i.e. Uttarayan and Dakshinayan and thousands of days. These Sun Gods immerse all the gods in themselves and walk by looking at all the ghosts i.e. creatures. (38)
 O Indra! The path below in heaven, the path through which you operate the earth, that path reaches our yajna place. You come to our yajna through that route. 
I produce the dyou. The sky is the head of god. My place is in the waters of the ocean. From there I expand into the whole world and touch this world with my huge body. 
O men! Havi is immersed for the gods (in the agni) with mantras. Oh yes! You are the body of agni dev. The oak and pestle that prepare the havi are prepared from huge (large) stone and vegetation. From these, havi is prepared for the gods. Pestle is taken to offer havi to the gods. Prepare the best havi and give happiness to the gods. O pestle! You come (come to prepare the havi). (15)
The sun is located in the middle of them holding three mothers and three fathers. Those who have knowledge of the world speak this voice on the surface of the sky, which other people cannot hear. (10)
One element is endless and wide all around. The second is endless and end-ending. These two are intertwined. Heaven seeks them desirous of happiness. He knows everything and the past and the future are His deeds. Here the first is God and the second soul. (12)
Snakes that live near here and those who live far away, they should become poisonless. I hit the scorpion with a hammer and the snake with a stick. (9)
O God with a hundred hands! Collect money with your arms and bring it with a thousand hands and give us money. After this, make me prosperous with the money you have given. (5)
Gamblers are sad to see the happy wives of others and well-built houses. The gambler who sits on a yellow horse in the morning, sleeps near the agni in the evening, disturbed by the cold, in the absence of clothes. 
All human beings worship agni. He has brought us success in the war with the help of horses. He is the one who will give the fruits of yajnakarma to the wise ritwijas. 
This is the first samidha of prithvi brahmachari. Hulok i.e. heaven is the second samidha of Brahmachari. Brahmachari completes the space between heaven and earth, that is, by the samidha inserted into the agni. In this way, Brahmachari completes the worlds through samidha, mekhala, labor and penance, that is, fills it. (4)
 O Mon! Your juice is extracted by crushing with stones. After that, it is filtered with a sieve made of sheep's hair. The green sommers enters Dronalash as a man in the city. Somerus sits in wooden vessels. 
I call the maruts who have stunned The Dyava-Prithvivi to drink somras. 
Just as this vast earth holds trees, so your womb should also be located to be born at the time of delivery. (2)
By performing one’s natural occupation, one worships the Creator from whom all living entities have come into being, and by whom the whole universe is pervaded. By such performance of work, a person easily attains perfection.
The first bhogya i.e. the one who eats was born. After this, he ate a lot of food. He worships sanatan and superior god. The same bhogya happened and started eating more food, which worships the eternal and best God God God. (22)
But for those, in whom this ignorance of the self is destroyed by divine knowledge, that knowledge reveals the Supreme Entity, just as the sun illumines everything in daytime.
O school! You have a agni, kund, seating seating posture of gods and a place for the hosts, including wives. (7)
Purna means that the whole world is different from God, that is, it takes birth. Through the same whole, this world is irrigated, that is, it is followed. Today we know the principle from which it is watered, that is, the one who follows this world. (29)
When Indra drinks Someras, mantras named Stom, Ukth and Shastra are pleasing for him. (6)
There is no god superior to Indra Dev. They are widespread in all worlds. Prajapati does raman with the people. They are sixteen arts. All three lights are held in themselves. (36)
Sweetness, humble emotion, kshem, swadha, nectar, strength and all the wishes present in front of them are located in the Brahman of Yajnashesh. All these satisfy the wishing host. (13)
O o o ladies! You are Pushpavati and Sufalvati. According to the season, they are produced in the womb of agni. Fire has been in spate since ancient times. (48)
O Vishnu! When your body grows at the time of vamana avatar, no one can know your glory when your body grows at the time of vamana avatar, then no one can know your glory. We know your two realms, the earth and space, but you know the ultimate people. 
Those who pierced the clouds moving in the sky and flowed the rivers and revealed the cows stolen by the force asura, who generated electricity from the stones filled in the clouds and who destroy the enemies in the war, they are Indra. (3)
O earth of greatness and power! You please and hold all beings. 
O Soma and Rudra Dev! Destroy the disease called Amiva spreading all over which has entered our body. In addition to this, turn away the vampire that is the cause of Amiva disease and take it away, so that it can not come to us. Remove the sins committed by us from us. (1)
Rohit, who lives in heaven, wanders in the ocean and earth with his zodiac signs. Such Rohit is worthy of darshan. (40)
O Gandharvo! These nymphs are your wives and you are their husbands. You belong to the Gandharva jati, so run away from humans, do not meet them. (12)
O yellow leafy and well-being herb! You are going to vashikaran. May you be full of fruits and inspire that woman to come close to me. After this, mix me erotic and kamini. (3)
 O Indra! You are mighty. You are the giver. Just as no one can remove a heavy fierce bull, so can no one, God, can anyone deter you? 
O Fire and Mon! Accept this gesture of ours and come together for this task. 
At this time, you, located on earth, were born three times by Indra etc. gods. This type of you were known to the Sages and Brahmins of the Angira gotriya. (6)
O Indra! You are not condemned by anyone in hell and on earth. The implication is that no one dares to oppose you in these two places. No one is able to bear your glory in the sky. Protect us by attaining growth through such mantras whose power is not frustrated. O broad Indra! Your semen i.e. powers are infinite. May you complete us with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and establish us in the good that is in the Supreme Vyom. (12)
O dearest ashchinikumaro! When will you take up the annarupi wealth of the yajna and bring down the rain water with the desire to complete the yajna? You are the protector of wealth and of man. This yajna is being done the same as your praise. 
O Lord Indra! Who really makes you objectify? What do you really enjoy drinking? You make the host strong. Please give us eternal wealth. (5)
Saraswati Devi specially illuminates everyone's intellects. Saraswati Devi is great and a sea of knowledge. She hoist the flag of knowledge. (86)
O god related to bondage! You come in many ways and rescue the man bound in this place from his bondage. O man! Just as the child comes out of the mother's womb, in the same way, you should get rid of the bondage and walk freely on all the paths. (4)
O Shataudana Gau! May your two lips, your nose, your two horns and your two eyes always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (14)
O darbhamani! Destroy my enemies and those who gather armies against me. Destroy all men who have ill will towards Me and those who hate Me. (2)
O Indra! You're furious. No one else can get your beautiful form, power, wealth and glory. (2)
O dundubhi! Make the earth and the sky wordful. Let the variable and the constant beings know your word. You, together with Indra and other gods, drive away our enemies far away. 
 O Brahmins! Som is going to sanctify you. Wish the gods your protection. Sing praises for them. 
O Indra! In order to get your friendship, the people who carry the haavya and perform the yagna rituals have destroyed the demon by force. At that time, when you were praised, you left the water giving the light of Usha to the dogs and destroyed the deeds of Vrithra. 
We call the moribund Brahmin bright agni god with praises with a view to protecting him and please him by havya. 
O burn! You are Varun's part. You should put the semen of water and divine glory in us. For the welfare of bum folk, prajapati's glory should be located in us. (10)
O agni! You are a provider, a donor, a giver and a dominator. O agni! You are an air giver or a power giver. May your weapons fall on our enemies. You are going to sanctify. You be welfare towards us. (15)
Ashwini Kumar should be of the same mind with Goddess Saraswati. They should drink sweet someras with Goddess Saraswati. Indra Dev is a protector and Vritra Hanta. They should also drink somers. (90)
Those who relinquish the body while remembering me at the moment of death will come to me. There is certainly no doubt about this.
We add fast-running and vibrant horses to the front of Indra's chariot called by many hosts. Let those horses bring Indra to this yajna complete in all respects. 
I am not manifest to everyone, being veiled by my divine Yogmaya energy. Hence, those without knowledge do not know that I am without birth and changeless.
O God! You are higher than men by money and like gods. To be kind to us in wars. Similar to the ancient times you do to protect us at this time. 
Don't be as dangerous as a dragon on earth. Please make varun dev marg easier for the departure of sun. Varun Dev makes a way where his feet cannot be placed, he retaliates. Removes the pain of the heart. The loops of them are evil depressants. He is the iconic god. We salute them. (23)
O Vishnu! I speak the word for you from my mouth in the yajna. O bright Vishnu! You accept our havya. Let the sentences of our adornment increase yours. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
O sun! Be good to us by your fastness, day, ray, coolness and warmth. Whether we're on the way or in your house, you give us this strange property. 
O mighty, all-knowing and radiant agni! Be awake to protect the hosts by devouring all that we host give in the yagna for your purpose. You are deathless. 
The bull that stood like water and like a statue, who is the master of all like the earth, who is the father of calves and the husband of non-violence cows, made us prosperous in thousands of ways. (2)
You separated the old age from the body of the sage Jarajeerna Chyavan in such a way that the warrior takes off his armor. When you made them young again, they found the form desired by the bride. 
It is true that the deserts, who are reared by Rudra, are illuminated and strong deserts rain without air even in the desert. 
Ritvijs purify the squeezing and glistening mona squeezed for the gods. Som, who is considered to be a good donor among the subjects, bathes in great water. 
O Brahmin's cow! You hold the Brahmin to make the harmer a less-life person and make him go to the world. (11)
O God of agni! We wake you up by prayer. You please come to the yajna to complete the ritual of yajna by doing grace on different hosts. You're cruel. Hosts praise you with beautiful hymns. 
Just as the ox that ejaculates thunders and sings towards it, so the words follow the mon who goes to Dronakalash. Mon crosses the dashapavitra made of white coloured and sheep's hair and covers himself with milk like his armor. 
O pebbles! You expand the uterus to conceive. O wife! You should have a son in your uterus and give birth to my desired son on the arrival of your husband. (2)
Acharya first originated as a brahmachari by preaching vidya. Jagat Srishta Prajapati became by attaining more glory through brahmachari penance. Prajapati virat happened. Later he became independent Indra. (16)
 O Mon! After you are born, three verses 
Protect me in the north direction with Vishwakarma Saptrishis. They protect me in the act of keeping my foot and in place. Let them protect and serve me in the city where I go. I surrender to Vishwakarma. May Vishwakarma get this. (7)
O Indra and Agni! People who fight spread the bow in their hands. In the great war related to finding cows, both of you do not leave us. 
O Mon who makes water and makes water! You bring wealth to us while you are cleansed. You are the creator and omniscient of rain-bearing space. 
For those who are satisfied with the somras of the desert adi dev Indra, Gayatri brings somalata without hard work. They enjoy all the somras left over from Indra in the yajna and destroy the enemy army on their own. 
For this Indra, Indrani etc. dev wives chanted the stotra. This Indra had transgressed the wide heaven and earth with his glory. The storm and the earth could not defeat the importance of Idra. (8)
Three persons with hair-like rays - Agni, Aditya and Vayu - look at the earth from time to time in the year. The first of these eliminates the garbage like a barber, the second sees by his lightwork and the third only has the knowledge of motion, he is not visible. 
O Sage Kashyapa! Greet King Som by extending your words on the basis of praises of the chanters. Mon vegetas are originated as spinach. Hey Mon! You tap for Indra. 
The faith of all humans conforms to the nature of their mind. All people possess faith, and whatever the nature of their faith, that is verily what they are.
O Indra! The host whose somras you drink and kill his enemies with a unique weapon is the one who praises you more and for your intoxication he has squeezed the somras. 
Just as the cow reaches the cowshed, similarly we take animal and grain offerings and go near the igniting fire. They spread flames here and there like falling water. The rays of visible fire get mixed in the sky. 
O host! Enrich the immortal agni with praises. They will ignite and take our vow to the gods. 
Being protected by Indra's armor, this attested gem has one hundred and one power and thousands of lives. Be able to attack all enemies like a tiger and defeat them. May my enemy who wishes to fight with your gem be defeated. O gem stone! May all gods protect you. (5)
Siniwali Devi is beautiful hair, beautiful parts and beautiful ornaments. She is the mother of gods. May they please hold ukha (purodash cooking vessel) in our hands for us. (56)
I am the knower of all and choose the agni that makes the yajnas better. (1)
Also, there are many other heroic warriors, who are prepared to lay down their lives for my sake. They are all skilled in the art of warfare, and equipped with various kinds of weapons.
Today we will be extremely dear to Indra and narrate his glory in the yagna. We described the glory of Indra in ancient times and are everyday. So let the great Indra be friendly to us more than other people. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as five bulls, then produce children from this cow, you will be considered ineffective. (5)
O Jataveda and a agni that is chosen by all! I admire you with praises. O agni! Bring the agni of priyavrat here for our happiness. 
O Supreme Lord, you are precisely what you declare yourself to be. Now I desire to see your divine cosmic form, O greatest of persons.
Kurang animals for Som, wild aries, mongoose and bee for Pusha Dev. Shrigal for Air, Gauramriga for Indra, Nyanku for permission and Chakwa bird for Pratishrutak Dev. (32)
O Mon! You are strong, bright, like nectar and the dharta 
O Goddess of Odan! Pick up these rice while being distressed by the root of the pestle. Meet these water. O host! You are measuring water through vessels. Here these rice have also been boiled. By allowing them to be put in water. (30)
O Mon! You are our friend. You are going to nurture friends. Please come to us. Please enter the right thigh of Indra Dev. You are the protector of happiness, the enemy of sin, the guardian of the world, the father of beautiful hands and the guardian of the weak. Please protect those from whom Som can be purchased. (27)
 O Mon! You are the God of all the worlds, green, everywhere and sweet. The edge of your juice is constantly jarred. By your grace, the host should be engaged in fulfilling his fast 
Hey Mon! Be the giver of wealth, the best of the givers, and the one who kills enemies forever. You give us the wealth of the rich enemies. 
This is the hymn! Just as the cow gives milk, indra fulfills the desire. You subdue the friend Indra and wake up the jaratlya Indra. Just as people turn the container full of money and remove the money from it, so you should turn to The Brave Indra to give money. 
Hey leaders! When you walk as you break the still object of the tree and shake the heavy objects like stones, etc., you walk between the forests standing on the earth and the path next to the mountains. 
O great agni! While performing the yajnakarma, the old man gifts you more food. May all the gods be the ones of adornment for us. Mother Earth should not let us be misunderstood. 
O Swami of fathers! Hand over the four-eyed dogs located in pitar marg, which have been appointed by you to protect Yampur, to protect this ghost. It has come to live in your world. Give it a barrier-free space. (12)
Salutations to Brahman, who appeared first among all the gods, who are sharp. You are the priest of the gods. You are the ones to illuminate the gods. (20)
 O Indra! Please destroy demons and violent ones. You break the chin of demons like Vritrasura. Please remove the anger and arrogance of the unfriendly. 
Oh, white and yellow dogs! When you remove your teeth while you're roasting, your teeth look great in the lips, shining like weapons. At this time you are well o. 
Hey Mon! The sun's daughter, Shraddha, purifies your loose juices with a wide and constant dashapavitra. 
This light- shaped herb called Kalmachi! You have been born in the divine earth. O downward-going herb! I dig you up to strengthen my hair. (1)
He is a scholar and be! You patiently praise the maruts and give greetings. What is the reason for this? That's the only reason why they protect humans from violent enemies. 
O agni! Our praises sing your praises like sisters. We ignite you with the help of air. We establish you in the yajna place. 
O Indra! No one can surpass your power. We are your own devotees. Oh, this maghwa! You fulfill your wishes of this hymn. The great sky accepted your bravery and the earth bowed down before your force. 
We return your mind which has gone far to earth or heaven. You live to live in this world. 
He is the originator of the words of the Psalms, Mon! You fall into the dronakalash as you stream. You are going to give gemstones to the yagyakartas. 
O Ashwinikumaro who follows the hosts! Your chariot is carrying, three-vandhara, rich, all-day-long and widely moving. I am praising you for coming by the same chariot. 
The gods named Arbudi, Ishan and Nyarbudi have covered the sky and the vast earth. Let me follow the army conquered by Indra's friends Arbudi and Nyarbudi, who are situated by spreading heaven and earth. (4)
O agni! May there be a sharpness in my body that defeats enemies and give me full life and strength with glory. I accept you for the perseverance of the senses and the karmedris. I accept you for the work that conquers the air for the work of agnihotra etc. and to get a life of a hundred years. (2)
Indra, the workman, the fierce, the superior of the leaders and the doer of action, throws the four-edged and rain-bearing vajra on the enemies with both hands. They serve to find shelter for the overcrowding Parushni river that surrounds different territories for the work of friendship. 
Whatever celestial form a devotee seeks to worship with faith, I steady the faith of such a devotee in that form.
O agni! Make the words, the quick-paced, and the maruts of your power visible. They defeat the force of the enemies by their own strength. The earth trembles with the venerable maruts. 
Som inspires all the waters of Dyulok to rain, purifies from Dashapavitra and goes to Dronakalash and is adorned with waters, stones and milk. The squeezed and filtered Soma give dear and selectable wealth to the stotas. 
May those Indras enable me many times and make me rich many times. I meet Indra, abandoned by my husband due to skin disease. 
 O agni! You are the best. You are the king. You are ignited with grains. You are enhanced with ghee. Everyone worships you together with havan. In this way, agni has originated before the Usha period 
O Indra! It is placed on the Som Kushas. You come towards it and drink it and be satisfied. (2)
Indra Dev is a peacock's wing-like hair. Please come here with your horses. No one can spread the net and tie you in the loop. You come here like a big archer. (53)
In the Shobhan Yajna called Somayag, ritwija creates a wide, happy house and a yagna-bearer of the gods to come and go on for the sake of Indra. 
The guest does not even eat the sins of the one whose food he does not eat. (9)
Agni Dev is illuminated from before dawn. The great Jataveda agni is illuminated throughout the day after this. These solar agnis are illuminated by wide rays after dawn. This light of agni enters both the earth and the sky and illuminates it. (4)
Prajapati has given me these songs in consultation with all the gods and fathers. They make these cows as kalyanrupini and keep them in our goshala, so that we can get the children of cows. 
The dyava-earth is covered with water, supporting water, pervading water, water-enhancing, elaborate, famous and rewarded by the hosts in the yagna. The scholars beg them for happiness in order to perform yajna. 
Indra is an enemy and a great one. Indra's flawless and hostile power sits like the top of the mountain in the battles performed by the heroic men. Indra, who is a destroyer of enemies and an iron-clad man, had, through Sompan, lured the elusive asura Shushna with shackles and locked him in prison. 
 Just as children call out to those who feed us for their help, we hosts call indra for our help. Indra is fast-paced and glorious. Hey Yazko! You worship him while singing Brihatsam to protect yourself in Somyagya. 
The godless god made way for the sun in space. That path follows space like a flying vulture. Oh my friend and Varun! When the sun rises, we will serve you with greetings and salutations. 
Rising sun calls for him and the sun with rays praises him. (4)
When the rainy season arrives, when water is showered on the thirsty frogs, frogs go to each other with the word 'akkhal' in such a way that the smiling child goes to the father. 
O melon! You were bound by the ancient sages who created the elements of earth etc. You also embrace me to provide long life. (5)
O agni! Do not go to the yagna of our violent, evil-minded neighbors or any other brother other than us, and do not take on the vow of our evil-minded brother. We will not bring in the food given by the enemy or friend in the enjoyment, but only the food you have given us. 
Savita Dev and Varun Dev poured wealth and power for the happiness of the hosts. Indra Dev enriched the hosts by protecting them from the demon Namuchi and taking strength and wealth. (71)
O sun! Let us live for a hundred years. (2)
Those Indras who are worthy of being called by the karyavalis, the mighty, the great, the God of the heavens and the earth, the rainers and the praises in the struggle, may they join hands with the Maruts to be our protectors. 
The great deserts that arise together rain simultaneously. They are very much inclined to beautify. He is the perfect leader of the Yagadi deeds like the Suryakirans. The chariots of the maruts moving towards the water remain at the back. 
O Indra! The man who is protected by you becomes prominent in wars with majority horses and in equestrians. He is also superior to men with cows. Just as water fills the ocean from all sides, so you also complete it with the wealth you receive in many ways. (1)
The deserters, who are uninvited, with no lossless wealth, who are well-praised in the yagnas, worship their friend Indra in the yajna, because they know the brave deeds of the enemy-destroyer Indra. 
Vishnu circumambulated this world and he stepped in three ways. In their dusty gray stages the whole world was hidden. 
O Rich Usha! Wake up the givers and let the greedy people sleep. You enrich the hosts. You are a beautiful netri. You undermine all beings, but upgrade your host. 
I do not destroy the place of Indra, Aditya, Vasuon and Rudradeva. These gods had made me an undefeated, non-violent and unshakable Indra for well-being and food. 
Indra stopped the sun's cycle of armament and protected the sage Etash, who praised him. The cloud of black and crooked motion soaked Indra sitting in the sky, the origin of the lightning and the origin of the water. 
O you who don't have the gifts! Grow this grain that strengthens the body like ghee, like the praises of the kanva. 
My friend met me and you. (14)
O agni! The one you carry thousands, the one you know everything, please take the yajna with the same power. Please take the hosts to the destination of the gods. (62)
O Indra, who performs a hundred yajnas! This is the character you have always received. You drink somers by it. The character that Dev wants, the same intoxicating character has been filled with somras. 
May Soma be attained by Indra, Vayu, Marudaganas and Vishnu. 
Indra adi dev, the waters whose essence of nectar is consumed in the sun and the water which is located in many ways, the waters with shobhan color that have taken agni as a womb, those waters should be the destroyers and beneficial of disease for us. (3)
O Arjun, know that I am the eternal seed of all beings. I am the intellect of the intelligent, and the splendor of the glorious.
By targeting Swami Apanapat, the grandson of water i.e. agni, we will say well the mantra made from our heart. He gets to know him more. He has made all the bhuvanas with the force of enemies. 
 O Mon! You are extremely sweet. You are going to know everything about yajna. You are the best, brightest and the brightest. You be holy to give joy to Indra. 
Coming down from Mount Munjwan, the moonj that is present on the earth, O Moonj! From that forearm of yours I make medicine, for you are the best herb. (1)
O Prajapati-husband who showers! Your speech is as flashy as electricity. You water water all over the earth. Madhukasha, the fierce daughter of the Maruts, was born with agni and air. (10)
The friend and Varuna's chariot running on the path of truth and with ropes comes out obstructing the man while walking on the forbidden path, I praise such friend and Varuna and do havan again and again for them with the desire for happiness. May they both save me from sin. (7)
O Gods! Indra Dev sits on the seat of Kush. O Gods! Please increase them. May they please overwhelm the objects in the sky and give opulence to the host. Please stabilize that splendour. May the host please perform yajna to get that splendour. (21)
O God! Please make the earth (host) perfect. You remove the defects of space. Please make the space world perfect. Please remove the defects of Vayuloka. O God! May you please make vayuloka perfect. Please fill this world with gentleness with Sun constellations. (43)
Agastya said, "O Maruto! Who is worshipping you? Oh, my friends! Go in front of hosts. O beautiful deserters! Get all of you riches and know my true deeds." 
O agni! You are the homelord of all human beings. O very young agni! I'll keep you ignited for a hundred years. You save me and the hymns who give you the greetings from sin through your hundreds of defense tools. 
Indra, who had the power of shobhan, surrounded the enemy army. The best soldiers of the enemies try to befriend Indra. O Indra! Just as you have been climbing the chariot for war like a wise man in the past, sit on your chariot with respect to come to this yagna even today. 
We should get victory with the help of Indra, who makes the saints cry in the war, with blinking eyes, jaisheel, who strikes in war, is able to avoid sorrow, who tolerates the attack of the enemy, archer and showers the desired rain. O warriors! Help the same Indra defeat the enemy. (3)
 Indra's horses are self-knowing and omniscient. These horses are engaged in taking Indra to the yagna. Scholars say that as soon as they are determined to go to the yagna, these horses automatically get stuck in the chariot. 
The green and the beloved mons of the gods sit together in the waters on the haired skins of Aries and listen to the praises while making words. 
O Indra! Give us the best of wealth, fame and good fortune. You can affirm the growth of our wealth and body, and make the words sweet and the days adorned. 
The mons with thousand streams get the friendship of the gods and leave in the kalash etc. for their intoxication. Som, admired by the leaders of yajnakarma, goes to his ancient place Duloka and goes to Indra to get great good fortune. 
Lightning thunders like a rumpting cow with breasts full of milk. Just as the cow licks the calf, so does electricity serve the deserts. As a result of this, the deserts have rained. 
Sanjay said: Seeing Arjun overwhelmed with pity, his mind grief-stricken, and his eyes full of tears, Shree Krishna spoke the following words.
O agni! You must accept our praises by loving the earth and moving with the sunshines. O Jathaveda! Accept the committees given by us. You call the gods for the sake of food and do havan. 
By doing swadha for the ancestors, performing various yagyas of the gods and donating vashas, the Kshatriya does not get the wrath of his mother. (32)
O man assumed from the planet Gandharva! If your mind is disturbed by the disorder of the planet Gandharva, then agni should calm your mind. Knowing the resistance, I meditate on this planetary disorder, so that you become free from frenzy. (2)
The embodied beings who are self-controlled and detached reside happily in the city of nine gates, free from thinking they are the doers or the cause of anything.
 O Indra! You take food in the form of someras and be happy. Come to our place. Make us powerful with your power. Give the enemies the power to win. 
O men wishing for peace! Whoever wants to kill you through violent actions and yagya initiations, you should become like Indra and kill him with your hundred-festival thunderbolt. (15)
The two gods named Agni and Savita should make the east direction free from enemies and make the west direction free from fear. Savita should protect me in the south direction and Shachipati Indra in the north direction. (14)
Today, the vegetable god comes to the yagna. He pleased the Ashwini kumars with chhag. He pleased Saraswati Devi with Aries. He pleased Indra Dev with Rishabh. The three gods were happy with this. Cooked purodash with these medicines. Saraswati Devi and Ashwinikumars presented Sura (tart juice of medicines) and Soma to Indra Dev. (60)
 Someras has divine qualities, increases happiness, loves and increases in water together. O hosts! You prepare someras mixed with milk for the gods. You prepare for the refined Somerus gods. 
O glorious Indra! At the time of your birth, the earth and the sky trembled with fear, the great clouds under you had quenched the thirst of the creatures and poured water into the waterless deserts. 
The green somras flow in our yagna and becomes holy and goes straight into the kalash. Indra, the king of the ancient, the radiant and intoxicating Somras, drink this somras. 
O karyavarna and wealthy indra! You defeat your enemies by meditating on us and holding the reins of the horses in the chariot because of the hymns that bring joy. 
O Indra! The angiravanshi sages who want to snatch away from the group of cows stolen by the panajis, they praise you. Even those who wish to milk the earthly cow, which once produced, produces many offspring and milks wealthy milk in thousands of streams, also praise Indra. 
 Soma, the king of the mind, the one who knows the world and runs fast like a horse and goes to Dronakalsh. 
O brave and glorious Indra! You go to all the houses to drink somers. Drink someras containing roasted barley 
Hey Mon! You come to give us great money. The Ayasya Rishis come to the gods to worship you while holding your waves. 
O Indra! You are going to take the side of Shaktiman and Devas. Don't destroy us. You are going to embrace great and havi. You take the yagna havi. We also worship marudgana with speech. (46)
Those devotees are very dear to me who are free from malice toward all living beings, who are friendly, and compassionate. They are free from attachment to possessions and egotism, equipoised in happiness and distress, and ever-forgiving. They are ever-contented, steadily united with me in devotion, self-controlled, firm in conviction, and dedicated to me in mind and intellect.
Hey Mon! You grow with the help of air and water. May you receive the force of desire from all around. You become the one who receives food. 
Oh my god! You are part of the fathers. You must bear the semen of the water and the divine radiance in us. For the welfare of the people, you should place prajapati's glory in us. (13)
O God of agni who defeats demons and is as fast as an horse! We make you the messenger of yajna through havya. O learned agni! You are famous among the gods as the one who burns the tree. 
O agni! You are surrounded by the radiance of a horse called Rohit. Please come here. You are rich and dear. Please destroy your enemies and make our yajna a success. (72)
O air! You and Indra are the masters of force and climb on the same chariot with horses. We come here to protect the people and do sompan. 
O enemy destroyer, truthful, and who make the enemies cry, Ashwinikumaro! The somras has been prepared and placed on the bedding of kushas. You come to this yajna. 
O Arjun, the soul that dwells within the body is immortal; therefore, you should not mourn for anyone.
If this visible sin has come from our parents, brothers, any family, son or close person, due to that sin, the anger of all the ancestors who come near us, all their anger should be calmed. (3)
The mouth of truth is covered with a golden vessel. The Aditya man he is, that's me. Brahman is prevalent in the sky in the form of Om. (17)
O You of equal power and the leader of all, Maruto! You're the leader of the class. You are happy to do sompan when the sun comes out. You do not hesitate to ride horses and you cross the path of all the peoples. 
O Indra! Be the protector of the yajna of The Left God. Oh, without violence! Be my friend in the war. O wise! We come to your side. Praise the praises of the praises always. 
O Indra! We call you to get great food by watering you from somras. You hear our call. When people go to war, we should protect the people better. 
O glory! You completely smell this urn. Please present this in you. You return that energy again, we get that energy in the form of thousands of streams. We should sing and get money. (42)
O o o ladies! May you be full of sweetness. May my speech also be full of sweetness. (2)
This is the best agni! The work related to you is great. You have expanded the earth and the sky, and you have become messengers. O working agni! You are the fruit giver of the hosts as soon as you are born. 
O God of Agni! Give this child a long life and make him bright. O stunning Varuna and friend Dev! Provide it with son-producing semen. Hey Aditi! Give happiness to this child like a mother. O all gods! It should be such that its body attains old age. (5)
The agni, moving upwards, ignites by the desire to go? Where does the air go? Where the creatures in the pursuit of movement are moving with the desire to go, describe who it is. (4)
 We increase the image of Indra by reciting mantras from the ancient Vedvani created effortfully like Kanva Rishi. With their influence, they are kind to us. 
The gods who wandered in heaven and the animals of the earth and the water have named me "Indra." I add green, powerful, varied deeded and fast-moving horses to the chariot to go to the yagna and wear the dharshaka vajra to gain strength. 
The egotistical Vrithra challenged Indra, realizing that there was no warrior like me. Indra is a great mighty, destroyer of many and an enemy. Vritra could not escape the destruction of Indra. Indra's shru vritra also destroyed the banks of rivers while falling. 
Male seed form is semen. She is inserted into the woman's uterus by conception. He becomes the means of getting a son. This has been told by Punsavan Karma Prajapati. (2)
We call the entire deserts to drink the Somras. They are the children of the earth and their force cannot be tolerated by the enemy. 
Prajapati created the famous Brahmins from Gayatri verses. Prajapati created protected Kshatriyas from the verse of age. The Ayyu overdeva created the Vaishya from the verse Vishtamba. Vishwakarma created shudras from the supreme verse. Prajapati produced sheep from a verse verse. He originated man from a line verse verse. He created the tiger from the great verse. He originated singh from hyper-advanced verses. He created a heavy animal from the great verse. He created the Uksha varna from the Kakup verse. He created Rishabh (bear) from satobrihati verses. (9)
O Indra! You destroyed the sixty-nine thousand generals who surrounded the assistantless King with your cycle that was worthy of defense and which the enemies could not achieve. (9)
The three-fold fruits of actions—pleasant, unpleasant, and mixed—accrue even after death to those who are attached to personal reward. But, for those who renounce the fruits of their actions, there are no such results in the here or hereafter.
In the best way, Pusha is born. They are born in the best way of earth and heaven. Both of The Love's beloved ones, i.e., Dyava-Prithvivi live together. Pusha roams around knowing them especially. 
O Wipro, those who preach to sages and leaders, and the sons born in the Kushik tribe! When the som is squeezed by the stones in the yajna, you recite mantras like swans and drink the som with the devas, pleasing the gods by the praises. 
Large intestine is related to Pusha Dev, gross blind snake god, common other snake gods, remaining intestines are related to Vidyut Dev, Vasti Bhag Jal Dev, Testicles Testis Dev and Upastha Bal Dev. Semen is related to Prajapati Dev, Pitta Chash Dev, Payu () Pradar Dev and Shak Pind Kushm Dev. (7)
O gods of equal delight! At this time, make our chariots in motion in search of food in the districts, because the horses connected in this chariot travel the way with their own speeds and walk very fast with their hooves on the raised earth. 
O God! In this divine yajna being performed for you on earth, we do the powerful horse dhoopyit (sacrament). We revere you at the top of the gnya for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. (9)
The one who praises you with your will gets money to nourish the brothers. Give us food with force and cows. 
Tell him who knows all this well. The appearance of this beautiful sun is extremely esoteric. The highest sun's rays like the head are rainy water like milk. Those same rays drink the same as water formation when heated by huge radiance. 
O Indra! This mon has been especially purified for you on the kushas laid on the altar. You come here and drink it quickly. 
The three sons of Aditi for whose life they provide light, the enemy does not have the right over him. 
If I ceased to perform prescribed actions, all these worlds would perish. I would be responsible for the pandemonium that would prevail, and would thereby destroy the peace of the human race.
The monster is inferior to both the body and the offspring. He should go under the three realms. Oh, God! May the demon who wants to kill us day and night wither his glory. 
What was the basis of Vishwakarma while creating the creation? Where and how did they start creation? In which place of Vishwakarma who saw the world, he made the sky after the earth? 
 O agni! Who among men is your friend, dear? Who among the Sakha Sakhis is most dear to you? 
We call upon all the animals to satisfy the Saraswan Dev, whose karma the water meets together for the sake of their confirmation, in whose karma the water meets and under whose karma they are the masters of nourishment. (1)
O god of yajna! You be compatible to our great defense. O Angiragotrian sages! You bring me food while trying in various ways for the yajna. You get the cow without infatuation at this time. 
O holy agni! Just as a person with little power is burdened with a heavy burden, so your deed is heavy for me, but I do not forsake it. You dear to me, more, give me seven kinds of wealth, serious, great, touchable and seven kinds of wealth, with food that defeats enemies. 
Oshadhi is the queen of Som and Bahuguna. She has hundreds of fantastic qualities. Those medicines are capable of giving desired happiness and giving strength to the heart. (92)
Rishis, meritorious, forward-to-all, radiant and patient Ushana receive the milk hidden in cows through their hymns. 
The sage Saptavadri says to his wife, "Just as the wind vibrates the water of the lake from all sides, so may your ten-month-old womb be in motion." 
 Someras is praised with the best prayers. Someras falls into the vessel with sweet currents to make Indra intoxicated. 
Hey Mon! You have done great deeds like Indra. You are the destroyers of enemies and break their cities. You come and kill the people of Ahivansh as quickly as a horse. You're going to kill all the enemies. 
I call upon both types of gods— the honorary and the doers of the gods. Powaman Som is bright and lustful. 
I kill visible and non-visible germs from the eyes. In addition to this, I also destroy the germs located inside the body like a net. I destroy germs called alagendu and shalga and all other germs with the strength of my mantra. (2)
O Shur Indra! You drink somras while you are delighted in the furious days called Trikandu. After this, while being happy and repeatedly sweeping the drops of somras in your beard, go to another place with the idea of drinking somras by your horses. 
O Indra, sitting on a gambling chariot! You come to us soon. This somapan has been running for you since ancient times. You open your beloved horses with a chariot near Kush. These ritwizs call you to drink som. 
I praise agni, the king of the people, the master of the wonderful and the yagnakarmos. They hear my praise. 
Indra, who is green and full-year- old, illuminates the whole world as soon as he is born. Indra, the lord of horses named Hari, has a green armament in his hands and a thunderbolt that takes away the lives of enemies. 
The sin in my sage Shakput destroys the lowly enemies because of the friend god's benefactor. May the friend God come and protect our bodies and protect the beloved material of the yagnas. 
Friends and Varun with true and good deeds! Sit here to be well-groomed. O fasting and powerful friend and Varuna! You get to the force. 
O Gods! You are very rich. Please increase our speech. You are agni-like characters and pure. We want to know you all. We are praising you. (81)
One hundred lakshmis arise with the birth of human beings. We send the most sinful Lakshmi away from this region. O God of agni, the knower of those who are born! Establish those Lakshmis who are Mangalkarini with us. (3)
 O Indra! You hold a thunderbolt in your hand. You are strong and powerful. Please be pleased with the prayers of the hosts. Please provide them food. 
Let the disease called Kahawah (flapping) come out of your stomach. I exclude the poison of all kinds of tuberculosis diseases from you. (11)
 O Mon! You are like a holy and friend. You inspire us towards the best objectives. You are self-conscious and enlightening. You are worthy of worship. 
Today, let all those sacrifices of ours be pleasing to your mind and you get the somras mixed with ghee. Sommers stuffed in a spoon makes your wish. He should inspire you to perform yajnakarma after drinking. 
God and The Sun God have held your hand, so you are righteously my wife and I am your husband. (51)
O god! You are the queen. You are adorned in the east direction. You are Virat. You are the south direction format. You are the emperor. You are the west direction format. You are self-published. You are the north direction format. You are the presiding deity and wife of all the vast directions. (13)
O woman! We drive out the demon who goes to you as your brother, husband or lover and wants to destroy your child. 
Speak in my mouth. Stay alive in my nostrils. May my eyes have the power to see. May my ears have the power to hear. My hair should not be white. Never break my teeth. There was more force in my arms. (1)
O yajna-yukta, leaders who are born for yajna, who increase the yagna, who are fierce and hate the sacrificial! We and other rituals are entitled to your soothing wealth. 
Prajapati transmits in the womb. They are unborn. Yet appear in many forms. All the worlds are located in them. Patient men look around because of that. (19)
Those who know in truth my glories and divine powers become united with me through unwavering bhakti yog. Of this there is no doubt.
Those Jupiters are sitting on our yajnasthan which are worthy of choice by all. May they fulfill our desires related to wealth and good power. Let us rescue the miscreants from violence and reach the shajrus. 
Oh, Usha! You are the brave leader of human beings. You are superior to Aditya's sister and other gods, savita's sister and other gods. May all gods praise you. After your happiness, the one who grieves will come, we will receive your help and conquer it with our chariot, etc. 
 O hosts! We invoke Indra for our welfare. They are our protectors, helpers, powerful and capable. They are praiseworthy 
Oh, this desireful Indra! The young horses that rain your water are attached to your chariot, as happy as the sea waves that spread the water. O kamavarshi and young Indra! The adjugs present you with the somaras squeezed with the help of stones. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You lifted up the water from under the well so that your stotha, the son of Richatak, could drink the water. You made the unpartum cow of the tired woman milky by your deeds. 
O Cupid! Destroy my enemies through your welfare force which is going to defeat the three worlds and the wide armor of Brahman. Their lives and animals become lifeless. (16)
O Maruto! May we have welfare in both the land and the desert. Do us good in a war of water and armaments. May we have the welfare of the women who produce sons. You do our welfare for wealth. 
Hey Ritvijo! Compose hymns with your mouth. Just as clouds extend the rain, so you increase the verses of that hymn, you read the scriptural hymns made by gayatri verses. 
In the matter of creation, the material energy is responsible for cause and effect; in the matter of experiencing happiness and distress, the individual soul is declared responsible.
The ashinikumaras who are subdued by the yajna and who are praised even in a country without hymns are well versed in yajna. They drink sweet somras with swadha words. 
According to the command of the gods, I receive the fate of the girl in the form of a girl, served by Somdev, with Brahma or Gandharva, accepted by the agni of marriage, to man, i.e. the groom. (2)
 O Indra! Don't accept the service of those who hate Brahmins. Don't be kind to foolish people and those who make fun of others. These people can not make any impact on you. 
The mantras of Samaveda sung after Udgeeth, the mantras of the end of pratihar and somyagas, the yajna named Vishwajit and Abhijit, the Somayag Sahan held in a day, the Somayag yajna named Atiratra, which is located in the remaining Brahma, should all be done in me, that is, should be done by me. (12)
O agni! Protect us from the enemy. O mighty agni! Protect us from sin. Our faultless desire came to you and we received thousands of kinds of money you had given us. 
Listen to my call to the sea, the stream, the dust-filled earth, the space, the ajakapat, the roaring cloud and the ahirbushya. All gods and scholars hear my praise. 
O Ashwinikumaro! In the morning, brave as the chariot-owners who go for the yajna, yamal like the shadows, the body as the women, the body of the woman, the two of you who live together as husband and wife and the knower of all the yajnakarmas, come to the servant. 
Arjun said: O Krishna, seeing my own kinsmen arrayed for battle here and intent on killing each other, my limbs are giving way and my mouth is drying up.
Just as rivers meet in the sea, so the intoxicating Som, squeezed by the Ritvijas, approaches Indra. Hey Mon! Give happiness to the animals and family members in our house and give us food and children. 
 O Indra! You have been born by the mother of gods. You have been born by Kalyankarini Mata. Please destroy the evil enemies who subjugated us. 
The Angiragotrian sages, who received the songs through the ritual of nine months, concluded the yajna by making a truthful speech and chanting commissible praises. He advanced to Ihlok and the hereafter and approached Indra and attained indestructible fruit by performing dakshina unaid yajna. 
Protect me from the ushas that arise. The wide rivers protect me. Steady mountains protect me. Let the father present in the yagna protect me. 
Summer, rain and hemanta - the three seasons are the heart of Samvatsar and spring, autumn and hemant are the three seasons breasts. Water-pouring, having diverse forms, barley, wheat, etc., consists of a variety of species, with three qualities like summer, rain and cold and is an important samvatsar. He is capable of holding semen and brings water to everyone. 
The Supreme Divine Personality said: Giving up of actions motivated by desire is what the wise understand as sanyās. Relinquishing the fruits of all actions is what the learned declare to be tyāg.
While desecrating agni usha, the occupants call usha, ashwinikumar and dadhikra through suktas. Listen to that call while wishing for our yajna by the god with a strong intellect and mutually compatible. 
O Kantishalini Usha! You drive away the darkness, completing the world with speed. After that, protect the food grain. 
O agni! You are the firstborn. Therefore, they are located in the pranas. Prana Bhuvan is born from agni. Therefore, they are located in the form of pranas. Prana is called Bhauvain due to being born from Bhuvan. Spring season is born from prana. Gayatri is born from the spring season. Gayatri sama is produced from Gayatri. Upanshu is produced from Gayatri. Upanshu to Trivatta, Trivrita to Rathantar. The chief of all these is Vasishtha Rishi. With the cooperation taken from Prajapati, we take life for the people. (54)
The host who adorns and gives a greeting to the adityas, the leader of the yagna, and the nurturer Aditya, whom he increases regularly, the lord of wealth, the famous, the one who donates wealth and praises all the people, comes to the yagna sthal through the chariot. 
Those who see everything with the same mind as the sages, the seers of all, those who are received by everyone, admired by thousands, who complete the wording of poets and param pujya Som, desire to live in dulok and is admired and illuminates the glorious Indra. 
You should be respected in father-in-law as a mistress, as a queen in the grooms. You should live with sister-in-law as a queen and with your mother-in-law as an empress. (44)
O sun! You hold the money you are eligible for consumption in both your hands. He is admired by everyone. There is no hatred for him. 
The person who reduces the life of a Brahmin. This cow that weakens it becomes like hundreds of types of destructive weapons. (5)
This hymn! When Someras is cremated, praise Indra Dev, so that he is as welfare as a cow for us Somaras givers. (1)
The sages saw the fire and said to one another, "Is it greater or smaller than us, what has come before us?" Has he come as an angel of the gods? How to fix it?" Then they said to Agni, "The Shrata Agni! We will not condemn the chamas, because it originated in the Mahakul. We will describe the receipt of this spoon made of wood." 
O living brothers! Take this phantom from home. Pick him up and take him out of the gram. Death, the messenger form of Yama, has taken its life to the form of pitar. (27)
These animals appear to be covered with skin. Their skin was first in men. O husband and wife! Forgive yourself with a sharp ness and cover the mouth of this rice. (51)
O God! You come to me quickly. O bright! I praise near your ear. You drive away the invading enemies. 
The same Som who pervades the dying Som Bhuvanas and protects all the realms from all sides, the same Som takes the same yajna away from the fruit-bearing asuras, thus resorting to the same yajna, just as the sun illuminates the world and resorts to it. 
O agni! Look at the food grains well placed on the altar. You have been established to perform yajna in the earth and sky. O rich godly agni! Protect us in the food war. Be protected by you and let us be freed from all sins. 
When the mons of krant karma wale know the stunes of the hymns while holding the wealth, the powerful Indra wants to come to the yagna. 
The waterproof speed of the Vaishvanar agni has made the high places of heaven and all the water is located in the ocean. From it emerges seven rivers similar to the branch. 
O Indra! You conquer enemies and do not hide their wealth. Oh, it's a maghwan! In the struggle, small and big, we call upon you to protect ourselves by praise. Inspire us with calls for war. 
O God! Let the stone of my somerus squeezer be high. You separate all the hidden enemies from us with the same stone. She Savita Dev is our foster and admirable. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
May Brahmanaspati Dev be pleased to come to this divine yajna. May Saraswati Devi be pleased to come to this divine yagya. Please take the best hero in this divine yagya by Prajanupalak. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. (7)
Those who are alike in happiness and distress; who are established in the self; who look upon a clod, a stone, and a piece of gold as of equal value; who remain the same amidst pleasant and unpleasant events; who are intelligent; who accept both blame and praise with equanimity; who remain the same in honor and dishonor; who treat both friend and foe alike; and who have abandoned all enterprises – they are said to have risen above the three guṇas.
O Indra! The only maya that you did was to do the forceful work of the vritaravadadi that you did while stretching out your body and proclaiming to men. All your war is also maya. At this time you have no enemies, so how could you have been in ancient times? 
 Someras is the best, dear to the gods and strong. It becomes one in milk and water, just as men and women and mother and child become one in each other. 
O God! For what do you not shower joy with your defenses? The rich wealth you give to your psalmists. Who doesn't he please? (7)
That's it, Mon! The scholars and the hymns who perform the yajnakarma decorate you and the human beings groom you well. 
O sages! The prana enters as the life of the people who consume the air. After this, he attains Swaraj. Virat is seen and not seen in the corresponding and living world. (9)
O Shobhandhan Wali Saraswati! This Vasishtha opens the doors of yajna for you. O goddess saraswati with bright colours! You get the growth and give the food to the hymn. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
The men said, "This is Sarma! How is the Indra whose angel you have come so far and what is his army like? Indra should come here. We will accept them as friends. Let them become the masters of our cows." 
O praiseworthy, pure forceful and amazed at the praise of my clever yajnaman, friend and Varuna! You hear the praise of hosts with a favorable heart. 
I put this bad dream in the vines of Vaishvanar i.e. agni. (3)
The father of the great and leafy Mon is Megh. They live on the stones of mountains like the navel of the Som earth. The fingers carry the milk of the cows to the water. Som Shobhan meets with stones in the yagna. 
Bayu Dev is pure, pure and very fast and connects with Indra Dev. Indra is the friend of God. The air is pure, pure and very fast moving. Indra is the friend of God. (3)
It is difficult to know Indra, so who praises agni by giving a havi for the host Indra's sake? Keen worships Indra by taking ghee in a pot called Khuch, targeting the spring seasons etc. For which host do the Devas give praiseworthy money without delay? Who are the yagyaks and deities who know Indra? i.e. none. 
May these great praises bring great pleasure to the Aschinikumaras. Just as the carpenter makes chariots, so have we said these great praises. 
 O agni! All the cows are in the shelter of fast-moving horses and scholars. You are revered. Please provide plenty of food to the hosts. 
In order, I destroy the germs in the intestines, in the head, and in the ribs through mantras. These germs enter the body and pass through the paths of various types. (4)
Hey Ritvijo! Purify the fierce, seeker of force, lord of wealth and giving wealth for Indra. 
Let him become lifeless, he should not survive. (13)
May this dhenu close the faces of sinners and drop this thunderbolt on the enemies. The first of all this shataudana cows given by Indra is going to guide the enemy destroyer and the host. (1)
O son of strength, agni! The protective work and the food goes from you to the host. You, pleased with the ungodly words, give us thousands of riches and a true son. 
 O Indra! You are the master of Mon. We've kept squeezing somers for you. You come to our yagna with thousands of your horses 
You are going to perform hundreds of yagyas for Bratdhari, Varuna, Palak and Sambharaj. You protect against electrical nuisance. You save from death. (2)
The cremation men lifted the deceased from the earth and placed him on the earth and offered it to the consumable places of the sky. The Angiras, who conquered the earth, also reached the sky through the same path as they have gone. (61)
If a thousand suns were to blaze forth together in the sky, they would not match the splendor of that great form.
Hey Rudra! Let the electricity released from space that roams the earth forsake us. O rudra in self-worship! We get thousands of your medicines. Don't kill our sons and grandsons. 
The gods like Vasu, Rudra etc. are our ancestors. Those who are our fathers, ancestors, etc. are gods. I am who I am of all of them. (3)
May the agni god garhapata, etc., give us the happiness of health through various agnis. Let the sun be the comforter for us. Keep the deaf and the enemies away from us in order to give sinless air pleasure 
O rich godly agni! Give us wealth, including servants, and animals to our sons and grandsons. Give us enough food and welfare good fortune, full and sinless. 
Panchaudan i.e. five orders of five types of rice should be given. He is mounted in the three lights - sun, moon, agni - attacking. You go among the virtuous souls who perform yajna and attain the third heaven. (8)
The Devas gave birth to Madhukasha. His womb was worldly. Vishwaroop, who was born in a young form, was sued by his mother Madhukasha. Vishwaroop captivated the whole world as soon as it was born. (5)
May all those directions protect my yajna. For them, I give this havi. (38)
Make these deeds worth bearing fruit while doing deep rupa ida. At the feet of that Ida, the hosts who wish for the gods sanctify themselves. Wherever we step, let a sister named Ida, who is able to give fruits and has soma on her back, expand our yajna. (1)
O God! Destroy the effect of this poison with the water given by the gods, which the creatures related to you and the creatures who created the vulmik, who received your boon in a waterless place and showered it. (2)
O Arjun, that action which out of delusion you do not wish to do, you will be driven to do it by your own inclination, born of your own material nature.
In order to destroy the wealth and the vrithra asura in the war, we call indra, who has been called by many. 
In all the rivers, the saraswati river, which is holy and emanating from the mountain to the sea, understood only the prayer of King Nahush. Saraswati had exploited milk by giving Nahush enough wealth of the whole world. 
O man of condemnation for no reason! Some of the statements about you are praise and welfare and some are blasphemous about you. In addition to these two types of words conducting harmony, three words namely Para, Pashyanti and Madhyama - are hidden within the body in this use of words. Only one i.e. Vaikhari speech comes out as sound. (1)
The sun which sees all the realms in particular and really knows all things, they are our protectors. 
Let the agni that completes the home spread all the yagnas from all around. Humans adorn the same agni through greetings and praises. Just as the stars illuminate the sky, so the agnis with bright peaks burn repeatedly in the rising herbs and illuminate the middle part of the earth and the sky. 
One part of me is in heaven and the other is fixed on earth. I've been to sompan several times. 
The true, revolutionary and ancient fathers who attained the radiance covered with darkness and created the ushas by becoming satyamattra shakti, were merry along with the gods. 
Aditya's son Devas had established the powerful and heavenly Aditya in two ways by the third karma of praja genesis. Our fathers created their offspring and established the parental force in their bodies. He established a lasting dynasty. 
Many yajna works and donor agni has been worn. They feed forests with light-like teeth. Indra, who receives the part of the yajna in a high vessel called Juhu, meditates in such a way that the powerful bull eats grass. 
O workman Indra and Agni! If you are located on a lower earth or in the middle sky, still come from there and drink the squeezed somers. 
May Indra Dev with vasus give us peace. Give us peace with the sodomy Varun Adityas. Give us peace with the sadistic Rudra Rudras. In this yajna, may Takshatadeva give us peace with the wives and listen to our praises. 
Austerity that is performed by those with confused notions, and which involves torturing the self or harming others, is described to be in the mode of ignorance.
O God! We are willing to praise you. You like our praise. Give us food, Ahirbudhya, Ajekpat, Savita, Ribhuksha and Trit. Grandson of water, the fast-moving agni, be pleased with our yajna karma. 
The suns that see the whole world and destroy the invisible toxins come out in the east direction. They frighten and drive away all the invisible poisons and demons. 
O ghost! The gods who see human beings, walking at the velocity of the air with dripping water and attaining heaven, know this Kumbh as wealth for you. Your tribe satisfies you with the water of this Kumbh. Kumbhodak, that is, those who give the water of the pitcher, always give you the dakshina of the water stream of seven mothers. (29)
Hey Ritvijo! You install in front of you in the present and unhindered yajna by reciting the joyous divine and flawless agni in front of you, because the special radiant agnis adorn our yajnas. 
We go home in the crematorium, sacrificing the sorrow of the death of our brother and freeing us from the sin of touching the dead body. Thus we are freed from grief. For this reason, we should be endowed with sons, grandsons, animals, gold, wealth, beautiful smell and air. (17)
Ninety-nine rivers are going to destroy the poison. I call everyone's name. The suns that are run by horses also destroy the poison kept away. Oh poison! Honey-learning will make you nectar. 
Let the deserts who receive growth in the earth and the sky progress in the streams of rivers and in the place of the great heaven. 
The blue-headed and all-consuming, very high-rise rays of agni enter the earth-sky and the seven rivers from all sides as parents. The earth and sky as parents are well-expanded and the agni gives long-life-like food to perform a large amount of yajna. 
O Indra! All gods are your friends. The sun that lights in heaven is the light through you. (7)
Oh, horse! You have three bonding places in heaven, water and sea. You are Varun. I tell you the places of your birth that the archaeologists have fixed. 
The goat was born from the heat of agni. He saw Prajapati, the creator of all animals, first of all. In the beginning of creation, Indra adi dev attained divinity due to the same goat. By making the same goat a means, other sages also reached heaven etc. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! If you come with Indra sitting on a chariot, if you live in a place with vayu, if you are happy with the sages of Aditi's son and if you walk in the footsteps of Vishnu, then come to us. 
O agni! You feed the world. You are Satpati and Chaitanya and are located on the surface of the earth. You also make heaven a divine. We establish you with holy mantras. Those powerful want to destroy us, please destroy them. (51)
The father of the Maruts is the overswami of animals. May he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in resolve in prestige, in Devahuvan karma and in ashirwad karma. (12)
We praise Pooja, the husband of Matarupa Raat. They hear our praise from their sister Usha's lover Surya. Indra's brother Pusha be our friend. 
We call back the mind that your mind has gone into distant waters and medicines. You live to inhabit this world. 
Listen to our hymns of worship, with bright chariots, with an ordnance called Rishti, the ones who kill enemies, those born of yajna, the eternally moving and worthy deserts of the yagna, and saraswati. O you who hurry, Maruto! Give us wealth including sons. 
He is respectfully called in both this world and the hereafter. (12)
Beneficial money poured on both of you (priest and host). You are capable of igniting agni. Please add Rasabh (ignited agni and mantra) to the yajna work. (13)
I have found the horseless chariot of the Annadata Ashwinikumars. I wish him rich riches. 
Like a agni seeker, all accept the havya. Let them help us by being brave as Dhanushk, as fierce as the enemy and as radiant in the struggle. 
O sing! May Aryama, Usha and Indra, who wins wealth, produce you. After this, you strengthen me with your milk, ghee etc. (2)
 O agni! You are a poet, scholar, youth, husband and protector of yajna. You are ignited with samidha. 
O Yajnaswamy Indra! You are adorned as the only king of this building. Protect the Brahmins with all your protective means. O blasphemous, thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink somras in the median savan. 
O agni! This Aditi is the original source of thousands of hundreds of streams. Ghee is going to leave in the middle of the body. It is going to exploit the disgust. Param is located in Vyom. Don't do violence against Aditi. You are instructed towards wild animals. You sit with them while increasing your body. Express your anger towards those we hate. (49)
The grain of agni that feeds through flame nourishes Indra and agni in space. Give the food to Indra and Agni. 
O delivery pulse! You will not be confirmed by this abdominal geria, because it is not related to meat, marrow, etc. Therefore, this white colored jarring should fall down like the moss floating on top of both. Let it fall down for the dog to eat. (4)
O juice! Your strength has come from near the sky. This chariot is the strength derived from the trees with essence. Covered with the force of water and ropes made of cow's skin, this chariot should have the same speed as Indra's thunderbolt. He was! Use this type of chariot with lust. (2)
Deeptishali Som, born with his friend Indra, forcibly stopped The Panai. It was this Somras that had wasted the maya and ordnance of the unsavory pangs that hid the Gorup dhan in the mountains. 
Mons, cut by stones, cross a blanket made of sheep's hair. The green mon says to Anna that I will call Indra together with you. 
O Indra! Listen to my call, drink the mixed somras we squeezed and experience a variety of delights. 
 The sages first of all learned that the words of speech are revered. After that, he gained the knowledge that there are hymns in three times of seven i.e. twenty-one verses. After that, along with the brightness of the sun, other praises 
Pururva said, "When the human-ized Pururva went in front of the amanush rupdharini nymphs, they ran away in the same way as the deer runs away from the disease or the horses running away in the chariot. 
O earth! May your snow-covered mountains and dense forests give us happiness. I should be established on the earth safe by Indra Dev in such a way that I am neither destroyed nor will I be familiar with anyone. (11)
O happy Ashwinikumaro! I long for your praise. You set up the son-in-law's wealth in my husband's house. O Lord of water Ashwinikumaro! When I go to my husband's house, you make the water of the water ghats drinkable. If there is a dried-up tree or a man of evil intellect in My way, remove him also. 
Hey Mon! The atharva-gotra sages have mixed your radiant and devabhishilashi rasa with sweet godoudha for Indra. 
I know seven objects living near Vasha Gau and seven objects living far away. I know the mirror of the yajna and I also know the lighting soma that takes place in Vasha Gau. (3)
At the time when the light-filled Meghmala is ready to do her karma, at that time the inspiring Indra removes the rain cover for the yajna. O Indra! When you publish workable days, the drivers and shepherds succeed quickly in their work. 
They perform yajna for Indra Dev. They are known for performing yajna such as turyavata, vicarva (svedaja, andja, udbhija and jarayuja), ayudhari, brahmagyani, golden gate. They worship them with praise and sense power for them. Please accept praying and sacrificing Indra Dev. The hosts perform yajna for them. (28)
Protecting from fears, Savita Dev should be the cause of our happiness. May the beautiful ushas benefit us. May the rain clouds give happiness to our subjects i.e. sons and servants. Shambhu, the owner of the area, may we be well-being. (10)
 O Indra! We increase your yajna. We praise you with wisely composed mantras for the destruction of the demon. 
O Indra and Brahmaspati! Let the sin we have committed, the son of Angira, Pracheta, save us from that hostile sin. 
 O Mon! It was only after drinking your juice that Indra killed Shambrasura, Turvasha and Yadu. Indra destroyed these three for Divodas, who performed the yagna. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You grow in such a way that all the people will gain growth from you. Be the giver of the most food for us. 
Son of the force, eternally famous and Jatveda Agni has been made a bearer of havya by the devas. 
O horse! May you always hold your beloved self-essence. That lovely soul should never leave you. Divisive forces can never take over your body and organs. Even an innocent person cannot agni a sword on your body and any part. Let his sword go to your faults. (43)
The wise and the protector-seeking hymns enhance Indra with satiating hymns. All the people submit to Indra like the branches of the tree and raise them. 
As the parents of the great yagna, Nisha and Usha themselves came and sat on the stretched kushas, as appreciated, mutually embedded, adorned by everyone. 
Oh, Usho! You become a wealth owner and a dynamic by giving fame, strength, food and juice to the man who gives the havya. Today, give my servant food and gemstones with sons and grandsons. 
O godly, omnipresent and dieless Indra! You cover the world with your brightness and give us enough wealth of bright characters. We admire indra's donation of more wealth. 
O father! Provide money for the death-loving host sitting on the lap of red mothers and donating Havi. He bestowed on the famous wealth we sons. O father! You should wear strong food for us in this land. (43)
I shall now reveal to you that which ought to be known, and by knowing which, one attains immortality. It is the beginningless Brahman, which lies beyond existence and non-existence.
O Indra! The money you gave for sudas, the host who gave the havya, was eternal. O you who are multi-worked and full of desires, Indra! I'll add to the chariot the two horses I want to bring you. Praises go to the mighty. 
The sweet hind part, the terrible, dynamic and beautiful som is caught in the yagna in the same way as plowing a horse in a chariot. Fingers, like sisters and brothers, together purify the mon and make adhwaryu som, who follows the same rules, powerful. 
O hosts! We praise Indra, who has been gracious to the devotees for your welfare, the lord of power, who defeats all enemies, the leader of yajnakarma, the most forgiving and the seer of all. 
The person who gives indra a relaxed somaras nourishes the brothers, protects the wealth received and receives the unfulfilled wealth, conquers the constant present night and day and becomes the beloved of the sun and agni. 
O Indra! Who are the great people who receive from you happiness and well-being, including food, money? Who are the people who give you the somarahs that give you the power of asuras? Who are the people who give you the power to get rain water and strength on your fertile lands? 
Oh my God! Please create you like Angira with The Vasugan Gayatri Verses. You are heaven and earth. You keep money for our people, hosts and our decorators. Please nurture our people and make them gopatis. Please make our people stronger. Rudragan trishtup verses please create you like Angira. You are like a breath and space. Please create you like Angira. May Adityas be kind enough to create you like Angira with the power of jagati verses. You are the sun and the heaven. Please create you like Angira. May you please create you like Angira from Vishve Deva Anustup. You are a direction and a direction. Give due harmony to the priests for children, wealth, valour and brothers. (58)
Hey Mon! You go all the way to Indra by relaxing well. Along with the demons, let our diseases also go away. Let the sinners not be happy to drink your juice. May your juices be rich in this yajna. 
 Somerus is succulent and worthy of consumption. Greedy dogs cannot hear the prayers made for Som. Just like Bhrigu Rishi killed a demon named Makh, you punish those dogs like criminals. 
The Marudganas belong to a shelter like the arrows of the wheels of the chariot, with a radiant like the Jayasheel Shurs, as the ones who drop water like the donating human beings, and the best words as the ones who do shobhan stotra. 
You are not tabuva, you are not tabuva, because tabuva makes poison ineffective. (10)
O Indra! Strengthen the essence of our chariot, khadir and shisham's saddle. Hey yoke! We have made you firm. You be firm. Don't let us fall from this moving chariot. 
The way meat is dear to the carnivore, wine to the alcoholic and dice to the gambler and the way the mind of the man who wants surat is engaged in the woman, O cow! In the same way, let your mind be in your calf. (1)
O Swami God of all beings! Take this yajna of ours to the present gods in heaven. You establish our sacrifice in the sky, on earth, in space and in the base air of all deeds. (8)
The sudas whose fame is spread in the vast dyava-prithvi, who has given wealth to every great person by becoming a giver, the seven lokas praise the same as Indra. The rivers had killed an enemy called Yudhyamdhi in the war. 
O agni! You are the first and the best of the sages of the Angira tribe. You are wise and adorn the sacrifices of the gods. You are many in many ways pervading the whole world for grace. You are brilliant and born of two woods. For the welfare of human beings, you live everywhere in different forms. 
Usha spread fast in the part of space and, like people, try to destroy darkness. Oh, Usha 
May this rich hymn and the revered mantra of ours be received by Bahukarma Vishnu in this yajna, constantly detailed. The directions that give birth to all and are far away from each other do not violate his command. Vishnu's footfall is great. 
The host always worships indra's force in a special way. It is true that it puts Indra ahead to do the work of heroism. Indra Vritra, who stops, violents and attacks them in a dense row of enemies, goes to kill the demon. 
 O Mon! These fingers are going to go all over for work. These fingers, which live with love like sisters among themselves, purify Someras. She squeezes the best hero, the conscious and the swami of all, Someras. 
O Gods! You are more life-threatening. By your grace, I will also become more alive, I will live for a hundred years. (2)
 Somers is green, brown and beautiful. He goes to Dronakalash with the pleasure of all the gods. 
O meritorious friend and Varun! May that havi form food given for you give you satisfaction. You sprinkle force and sweet juices on this king with people. You should take nirrriti, the sin goddess who defeated, away from us and take her to a distant land. Take away from us the sins committed by our enemies. (2)
O Indra! You are pleased to accept our prayers. Drink the somras found with cow's milk and curd, sit on the cushions laid by the host and expand the house of your devout host. 
Work came to me with the desire of the fruit. May I also get the mind that receives the fruits of Brahmins. (4)
O earth and sky! By targeting you we will praise you greatly. We come close to you pure to pray. 
O Aghnya! Because of the brahmin's curse, you become the shackle of the kidnapper's feet. (12)
Savita should raise her golden and soothing hands like a lecturer. They reach the places of the sky from the earth and give joy to all the moving objects. 
Worship of the Supreme Lord, the Brahmins, the spiritual master, the wise, and the elders—when this is done with the observance of cleanliness, simplicity, celibacy, and non-violence—is declared as the austerity of the body.
O Chandra Dev! Anger those who hate us or those we hate with the power you have to anger others. (1)
O agni! You drive the wicked away from us. May you make us longevity. Give us strength and confirmatory food. 
Fire arrows move their flames forward like a thrower and accelerate like a stream of furrows. They spend the night at night like a bird living on a tree with strange motions and legs shrinking. 
The squeezed som goes to Indra, Varuna, Marudgana and Vishnu. 
This medicine has been created by Jupiter Dev. The yajna that has entered the cows, I combine it with that yajna. (56)
The pitars sitting in the southern part of the altar also invoke Saraswati. O father! May you find happiness in this yajna. O Saraswati! When you are called by your fathers, honor us with the food you want. (46)
Indra is supposed to drink the squeezed Mon. Indra is skilled in yajnakarma and gives abode and money to the soma squeezer and the praise-giving host. 
O gods! You are the knower of yajna. You go to your known place. You are the master of the mind. In this yajna, sacrifices are offered for you. You hold pure air for us. (21)
O heroic and stable Indra! You stop the heroes who commit misdeeds. (1)
I have reverentially held the fire in the northern altar. I pray in front of the divine power of fire and indra and vayu. By targeting the illuminated navel of the earth i.e. the sacrificial land, a new praise has been created by publishing this selfishness, so that it should be heard. Let our praiseworthy deeds come to the gods. 
O agni! Don't sacrifice us. You are getting well illuminated. Sacrifices are being made in you. You should be illuminated to see the sun forever. (18)
Indra, who is a doylord, highly powerful and possessed of beauticians, has already had a sense of friendship towards the hosts. O Indra! You have put white coloured milk in black and red cows, which are not well young. 
O Indra! You, together with the riches of food grains, drink the soma wet by water well and squeezed by stones with both hands. Oh, this maghwa! Be happy to drink the som with The Hribhu., the sons of Sudhanva, in the house of the host, inspired by praise. 
O air! You are pleased with the host who donates the greetings and come to drink somras and come and drink the squeezed somras. 
O ghost! We install you in a pitra devta named Swadha, already located in the north direction from the place of combustion and covered with a blanket. Just as the earth donated by the donors to the Brahmins follows heaven in the upward direction, similarly the father god named Swadha follow you. In the form of virtue, we worship those who enforce heaven in the form of virtue. O Gods! You become participants in this yajna. (33)
O devi! You have to go to take Mon for Indra. For this, please allow you to mother, father, brother, sister, friends and neighbors. After taking Som, Rudra Dev should be pleased to bring you towards us and do us welfare. Please take Somsakha and come here again. (20)
It is not appropriate to take Yama's name here, because his sister had wished to become his wife. Yet whoever praises these Yamas, O Agni! You forget that condemnation and protect that psalm. (34)
I surround his glory, strength, life and age. I knock it down. (4)
Jupiter Dev, distant goddesses, glorious Brahma Dev please hold strength and age for us. Please take strength and age for us from the cows that nourish the line, verses, senses, animals. (16)
The one who gives dakshina first of all is known to the sages, Brahma, the leaders of the yagna, the samagankarta and the stota. They know the three statues of agni. 
O Indra! You have crushed Ushadevi, the daughter of heaven and worthy of worship. 
O Indra and Varuna! We have brought to you the famous defense prayer with the desire to get a cow. We ask you powerful, bonded, brave and most revered gods in the same way that the Son begs the Father. 
O proud gods of life and your air! Protect me from death. This havi is well done havan. (1)
I salute the first Brahman, whose feet are the earth, whose stomach is space and who has made heaven his head. (32)
Jupiter's fame is spread in the earth and sky. He, wearing the same desire as Aditya, communicates intelligence among the creatures as well as gives them fruits. Jupiter's weapons move as fast as the weapons of hunters towards the Mayavids. 
O Shur, the lord of the community and the soothsome with heroes! You are powerful, victorious, the gatherers of winning wealth, the sharp armaments, the high-speed ones, the holders of the bow, the intolerable in wars and the defeaters of the enemy forces. 
O Indra Dev! You are an enemy. Just as the sun destroys darkness, so you destroy the tree. O Indra Dev! Everything is in your control. (35)
O agni! Know your praises by defeating your enemies with your swiftness. We become your messengers and speak the same hymn as Manu. I wish to praise the agni that is full of flames and full of karmaphal with the host. 
O Indra! You drink somras. Mon please you. O lord of horses named Hari! Just as the horse is subdued by the reins, so the stones held by both hands of the somas squeezer have prepared a mon for you. 
O Indra! I consider you to be the best of the sacrificial persons. I consider you to be the one who breaks the fortified mountains. I consider you to be the flag of armies. I consider you to be the one who fulfills the wishes of the people. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! May somers worship you in such a way that you give money to the one who squeezes it. You've drunk this somers. You have possessed a greater amount of power for this great and praiseworthy Somras. 
O Lord Indra! You surround our (mischiefs), clever, hidden in mountains and caves, dangerous like lions and enemies far away from us from all sides. You penetrate and chase back the enemies with our sharp weapons. (71)
O agni! You are omniscient. You destroy all our rebels who have been born. You speak to us with a good heart. May you give us happiness with a good heart. May we be happy by your grace. You stay in the yagyavedi. We can perform yajna by your grace. (1)
In this body of Indra Dev, the mouth and head are pure with truth. The soul and the bani are sacred. Ashwini kumars and Saraswati Devi have made it sacred. excretion makes the body pure. Vasti and the rest are genital. (88)
 O Indra! After being refined, somerus becomes one-sided with cow's milk. Someras is energetic and gives energy to speech. Just as birds gather and chirp near it, so we gather and bow down to you. 
Indra usually ran towards the great armies and interrupted the earth and the sky with his fine glory. In the enmity, Pragalbha Indra wore a vanar made of iron to bring happiness to his friend, Varuna and the havan-giving host. 
O son of strength, agni! It is these gods who have made you to bear the same. 
O agni! Don't destroy your traditional friendship with us, for you know the past, the future, and the present. Just as the sun's rays cover the sky, so try to keep away from us the old age that destroys us. 
One who knows the season named Abhibhavanti, knowing the season abhibhavanti, takes away the opulence of his unpleasant enemies and brothers. This season named Abhibhu is the panchaudan form aj. He who donates the Panchaudan form Aj illuminated from Dakshina burns the opulence of his unpleasant enemies and brothers with his glory. (36)
Just as cow's hoofs etc. cut off the contaminated organs and remove them, just as a indebted man gives money to the moneylender, in the same way, I give all the fears arising out of the nightmare to the man who hates Me. (3)
O king! You should remain firm and ignorant in this nation and destroy the enemies and also bring down other people who behave like enemies. Let all directions be gentle and engage in your service. May this event of yours be able to provide you stability in all directions. (3)
We call Indrapatti, Varuna wife and Agni-wife for our welfare and for doing sompan. 
The gods have made the Vaishnavar Agni a provider of knowledge of the days for the welfare of the whole world. Fire expands the special-light ushas and immerses the whole world in a group of darkness while leaving. 
O aschinikumaro! Just as long legs help me to cross deep water, so support me in overcoming adversity. You hear the praise of the hymn like ears and you join the beautiful yajna as the parts of the yajna. 
We, thousands of people illuminated by wealth and our leader Indra, receive powerful horses. 
I describe the heroic deeds of Vajradhari Indra that he has done in the past. He violated Vritrasura and after that he removed the water stopped by him and drained the rivers coming out of the mountains. (5)
He is the runner, the creator, and he is the air that has made the sky high. (3)
O agni! The birds get scared when they hear your words that burn the forest region. When your flames spread all over the forest by devouring the present straws, the whole wilderness becomes easier for you and for your chariot. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O Parth, it does not befit you to yield to this unmanliness. Give up such petty weakness of heart and arise, O vanquisher of enemies.
This gem made from tilak tree is going to return the opponents and destroy diseases etc. May this gem, which is full of enemy destructive speed, which lacks war by driving away enemies and subduing everyone, protects us from everyone. (4)
 O agni! You are present in all the houses. You live as lightning among the clouds. At this time you are present in the yajna. You are great. You are going to know space. They are going to wear Havi. You give us food, money and protection. 
 O agni! You are shining. You torment the wicked day and night 
O agni! We hold the balance for you. You are a fasting husband. We are Dixits. Dedicate fast and reverence to you. Let's ignite you. (24)
O Pawman Mon! You give us children's and great food, cows and horses. Give us wisdom and fulfill our desires. 
O God of agni soon! Indari Dev inspires you to fight and inspires you to call the devas to the host yagna. O sacrificial, deathless, bright and well-known agni! The gods have given birth to you to come among the sacrificial humans and be present in various yagnas. 
The animals of Bishva Devi are of mottled (strange) color. Aditya Dev's weapon organ speech is unknown and beautiful. The holders are for God. These are calves for the wives of the gods. (5)
O agni! You meet those famous gods by power and get separated. O agni with beautiful origin! You get ahead of all the gods in force. By your own power, the food poured into the yagna spreads to the earth and the sky while saying the word. 
O agni! You are lazy, uniform and careful. Don't allow violence by hosts in our yagyas. You are the master of yajna. Please do our welfare from today. (3)
 O Indra! The host, who protects the desert, aryama and friendly gods who do not hate, is definitely going to walk on a good path. 
Savita Dev, who is a devotee of shobhan-karma, walks ahead of both night and day without grace. 
 The gods, like poets, distinguished agni among human beings in two forms 
Vishnu is famous for his beauty. They are praiseworthy for their bravery. They move like lions and impulses, they live in mountains. All of them have shelter in their three legs. All the folk shelters are found in the three feet of vishnu. (20)
 O Mon! You got money from traders. You are sanctified with mother water. The songs sung for you resonate far away from the yajna place. You are adorned in all three places heaven, space world and earth. You make us long. 
O Indra! You're furious. Remove all our causes of fear and make us endowed with the force that subdues the enemies. We call upon you to protect us. (2)
Do not hand over the agni to us in the hands of the violent. The yajna of the one who wishes for the yajna should not be weakened. 
What is the purushartha that Indra has not done? With which hearingable purushartha is Indra not heard? Indra's incident of death is being heard since his birth. 
O God of Agni! You are going to follow in all ways, that's why follow me. This havi is well done havan. (7)
O Mon! You are also the essence of the essence of water and juices, the essence of the sun and the essence of water. We take that juice in the vessel. We take you in the kitchen for Indra Dev. We take you in the kitchen for air. You are the optimum of Indra Dev and the vagina of Indra. We accept you for the host Indra Dev. (3)
O Indra and Agni! You destroy the man of wicked thoughts and evil knowledge, the mighty and the one who hijacks our property, by the weapon, as if a pitcher is smashed. 
O agni! You, lighted in flames, sit on a chariot with Indra and the other fast-paced gods and come before us. Aditi, with the best sons, sits on the kushas and may the god without death be pleased with swahakaar. 
O bride! You have a faint eye and do not diminish your husband. You are pleasing the brave sons and making everyone happy while being happy in your mind. May you receive this house and let us also gain through you. (17)
Hey Varun! Where was our old friendship? We are maintaining the same old and unforgettable friendship. O Annaswamy Varuna! I will go to your very wide and door-to-door house. 
O Shobhan-armed Mon! You please the gods, give us a son with a good semen and come to this yagna. 
Please give us the east direction. Agni is the overswami of this direction. Black snakes are located in it to protect. Aditi's sons Dhata, Aryama etc. are the weapons of this direction. May my greetings be pleasing to the overswami Agni, protector black snake, dhata aryama etc. The enemy that hinders us or the one we hate. O God of agni! We keep it under your molars for your food. (1)
O Savita Dev! You do consciousness. You are the wealth of truth. We call upon you for sumati (good intelligence). (11)
O dead! I cover you with the clothes of everyone's auspicious mother earth. The beautiful thing that the creature has to donate in the living state, it should be with me who performs the sacrament. The food that is in the ancestors, let it be in you. (52)
Dotted deer are the vehicle of maruts. They carried out light-air with these vehicles and carried out a massive roar, ordnance and catchments with ornaments. 
 O agni! Your semen is like horse semen, is universal, is sharp, finds shelter in water 
Just as saritas raise the ocean, so praises increase Indra. The jarless Indra is unclaimed with uncluttered wrath. 
Oh, Usha! Give us that strange wealth, which is famous far away. O daughter of heaven! Give us the wealth you have for the consumption of human beings. We'll consume it. 
Before the enlightenment, I attained the earth and the worlds. The purpose of this is to see Brahman, which is the cause of this world. In that Brahman, Indra adi dev tastes nectar and immerses himself. (5)
The best hymn is spoken for the purpose of agni. O blazing agni! Give us more food, for great wealth and grain come from you. 
I ascend from the back of the earth i.e. from the earth to space and from space to heaven. From the back of a sorrow-free heaven, I receive the light of Hiranyagarbha located in the solar system. (3)
O god of the sacrificial character! Tell us for the sake of protection and save us from the evil that is causing destruction. We call you by the Satyarup Yajna. Listen to our call to you for protection and well-being. 
 Everyone has heard the glory of the force that killed Vritrasura. I give that strength to you with the desire to get good money to man. 
O Indra and Agni who defeat the enemies! You bring us food. Do not become our master who speaks bad words. 
We call upon Indra, who protects and protects. We call Shur Indra through our calls. We call the powerful and purulent Indra. May the powerful Indra give us health. (1)
Hey Ritvijo! Perform havan in the agni of the holy light, the one who sleeps in the woods and is adorned with adornment, and worship the angels of the gods, the early, the old, the praiseworthy and the bright, the agni that is present in the yagnakarma. 
Indra has subdued snakes named Pridaku, Pridakva, Swaja Tirshchiraji, Kasarnil and Dashonsi for my welfare. (17)
O host! You are like the son of sages. Fire protects us from the curse. Fire is worthy of invocation. Agni has entered the yagnakund. May those agnis be kind to us. We provide havi for the gods. Please accept that spirit and convey it to those deities. (4)
O Jativeda Agni! The host who gives you a burning gesture receives a powerful son and grandson and becomes prosperous. 
O teacher! You squeeze the extreme itemizer fraction of the somalgamata to The Somras to Indra. Only the heroic and ever-growing Indra is praised. 
O agni! You are immortal. You appear in front of Maya. You are inspiring. 
O man! I build medicines for your life and give you strength. Let you get rid of the traps of death, do not fall into those loops. You sit on the chariot of the body that is not ending and suited to sense happiness. Sitting on this body chariot, you say that I have attained consciousness. (6)
We praise the seasons, the owners of the seasons, the substances related to the seasons, that is, the lunar years, the sun years, the saints and the months. Let them free us from sin. (17)
May the gods who follow the truth be the cause of our peace. May horses and cows give us peace. May god, who does good deeds and has decent hands, give us happiness. May the ancestors listen to our stotras or mantras and give happiness. (1)
 O Mon! You are determined and light. Your currents please the gods. At this time you are being squeezed with fingers. You are becoming pure. Please be distinguished in Dronakalash. 
O Mon! You are pure and vast. Please make us the best semen. 
O God of fire! Those deserts who are adorned in the present luminous heaven above the sky, come with them. 
O Ashwinikumaro! What are you doing here? Why are you near this man? If a person is getting respect among the people even without being a yagna, defeat him. Destroy the souls of that cow. I am praising you brilliantly. Give me the light. 
O agni! You come with your army and become the one with the riches for us. O the yagyakar of the gods, the best yagnik, the undeserved, the protector of sins, the agni with wealth and lust! You protect us while becoming illuminated on all sides. 
O agni! You are illuminated in the seasonal tens and become a means of worship in heaven. Did Marudgan, the son of the Pashnimatas, worship you who met the deity Rohit Dev? O Rohit Dev, the criminal of those angry gods and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make you staggered attenuated and tie to your loops. (23)
The vrittle Indra pulled them together in such a way as the rope pulls the wheels of the chakra. Indra grew up killing the bandits. 
A woman belonging to us who has legs like a deer, with teeth like a bull, with a cow-like speed and a distorted word speaks; We remove these ill-effects of him with the influence of mantras. We also remove the woman who has the symbols of evils on her forehead with the effect of our mantras. (4)
O God of sacrifice! Swaha for Prajapati Dev, who is confirmed by yajna. Swaha for the elite king. Swaha to all the devas (vishva devas). Swaha for those who walk on the right path. Swaha for the religious people. Swaha for tejaswis. Swaha for ashwinikumaras who are anointed with water. Swaha for the benevolent Pusha Dev. For the enemy deserters. Swaha for the friend Dev who enriches agriculture. Swaha for moving air. Swaha for agni. Swaha for the god. (5)
 O Indra! Even those who perform yajna cannot take you away from us. Come to us quickly even if you stay away. Stay here and listen to our praises. 
O agni! I have brought these committees for you. You are ignited by those committees. You infuse age and life into all of us. You provide nectar to our Upadhyay. (4)
The truly learned, with the eyes of divine knowledge, see with equal vision a Brahmin, a cow, an elephant, a dog, and a dog-eater.
O Indra! The hosts give you havi etc. only in each yagna with the desire of the desired rain. You are the same for all of you and you are given the right to get the gold. Just as a boat capable of crossing the river is resorted to, so we place you in front of our army with the desire for victory. Hosts care about Indra as God through yajnas and hymns. 
We praise the growing Indra. Just as Indra, the worthy of call and the demonic, comes upon our call, so Indra willingly comes to our yajnakarma and removes our mindless cynics by means of killing them. Just as water flows downwards, so too does the thief's degeneration. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You are spread across paradise to tap enemies. Your rays are bright. These bright rays are located behind paradise and protect the hosts. 
The substances produced in the earth remain on the earth and blow dust on it like an horse. These lands are Bhadra and Urvara. It is going to follow the folk under the influence of flora and medicines. (57)
O Shataudana Gau! May your liver, your intestines and your anus always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (16)
 Friends and Varuna Devta protect us with all their defense means. They are our lenders. May they please give us successful wealth. 
O enemies Indra! You save the sudas who give the havya by using all the means of protection by your dracon vajra. Protect the sons of Purukuts, Trasadsyu and Puru in the battle caused by the land. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Bring us hundreds and thousands of kinds, admirable by many and bearing all the money. 
O Indra! You drove your habitable vajra on a bandit called Shushna. O furious Indra! You are heard full of desire. 
O air! You drink the som without being drunk by others like kings who frighten the enemies, first of all and give riches to the praiseor. O air! You come by the refreshing chariot to drink the somras. 
O Brahmin's cow! Destroy the agni to that sinful mind crushed and mashed by you. (15)
O Great Father, may this substance given to you be swadha. This is also a blessing for those who follow you. (75)
Which Havi giver is calling you to get protection and drink ready-made somers? Who is serving you? Salutations to Indra, who served the yajna. I salute the chariot that brought Ashwinikumars here. (3)
The Indra, whose almighty and admirable force always follows the earth and the sky, may he be pleased with our sacrifices and save us from sins and become our protectors with the help of the maruts. 
Don't surround us with monsters. Let the pairs of tormenting monsters be away from us. What words do these monsters say? May the earth protect us from earthly sin and save us from space divine sin. 
Whenever and wherever the restless and unsteady mind wanders, one should bring it back and continually focus it on God.
Just as the barber cuts his hair, so the ushais completely destroy the black darkness wrapped around the world. Just as a cow reveals her voice at the time of milking, so the ushas reveal their chests. They go in the east direction like the cows going to the goshala. 
O Indra! Sages with kanvagotra give you havi. Rum, Rasham and Krip express joy together in kings. You come to this yajna. (2)
The agni of electricity living in the clouds, the agni living in the form of a wadav in the waters, the agni living in the body of humans as a global, the agni living in the sun, barley, etc. in the crops of wheat, barley, etc. and the agni living in the trees should get this havi. (1)
O Indra! I complete both your wombs with somras. May the somras permeate all the indulgences of your body. You accept the sweet somras by tongue. 
 Soma gives pleasure to the omnipresent enlightening Indra, so that he can do even greater work. They are satyavan and dev swaroop. Indra drinks someras mixed with barley extracted in three khuk 
O Pusha! That is, the Sun God! We should never be destroyed in your sacrificial deeds. In this deed, let us always praise you. (3)
These watery mons are squeezed. Indra goes to Indra, wishing for us to drink, so Som goes to Indra. The som that gives pleasure on drinking goes into the water. 
Just as the mighty ocean rules over rivers, so you too should reach your husband's house and live as a empress. (43)
O agni! Those who donate the best cows and powerful horses to the wise stoetas, take them and us to a better place. We will be composed of the best heroes and will speak many mantras in the yajna. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! You are going to sit on a fast-moving chariot. May the praise that is given to you stand as the sky. (3)
We have done the asurashana etc. deeds of these somas. The mons who defeat the enemies also pay the debts of the hosts. 
Long-haired and sweat-soaked horses bring you on a soothing chariot in front of the seating kushas and near us. 
O morning praiseworthy Ashwinikumaro! Give us food containing cows and the money worth consuming. Give us the way to consume too. 
The mother of the sun, Tejaswini and the white-coloured Usha have come. Krishnavarna night has given her her place. Although they are both related to the same sun and are non-moribund, they follow each other and wander in the sky destroying each other's form. 
O Ritvijo! You should recite the stotras with the desire to get food. O host, Vasishtha! Worship the presiding deity with your ritvijas and other means. Indra, who has expanded all beings with his strength, came here and listened to the words of me Vasishtha while taking care of Indra. (1)
She is the protecting divine power and surrounded by truth. In the same way, all those trees are green and covered with green leaves. (31)
 O Indra! You are revered. Someras is informative, joyful and virtuous. Please drink this clean filtered somers first of all. 
People who have no faith in this dharma are unable to attain me, O conqueror of enemies. They repeatedly come back to this world in the cycle of birth and death.
Just as this speech is welfare for the people, so be for us. Your speech should be good for well being of Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras. Be dear to the gods who give dakshina. May our desires come to fruition. May we enjoy it. (2)
O Indra! The deserts and chariots reached you at the time of the death in this way, just as the mother goes to the son. You have watered the streams, pierced the cloud and poured the stalled water. 
O agni! You, son of Sarma, cross the four-eyed and two dogs of chittabra, and go by the best way, to those who are happy with Yama and to the fathers who are blessed with the good knowledge. 
O nerve that causes stone disease! O Sagittarius and brihati nadi! You surround all the routes of blood flow and spread it. You become bloodless and increase the happiness of this person. (4)
We praise all the gods who have said and have not been said and who protect the truth or sacrifice or truth. May they all come with their wives and free us from sin. (20)
The lunar system is a planet. In that, Indra, the form of the sun, sits in one of his rays. (3)
 O Indra! You come quickly. We are worshiping you by reciting sama and yaju mantras with purity. We are offering you somersa purified with force-enhancing mantras and mixed with cow's milk. May that somerasa increase your happiness. 
As huge as a mountain, a bright, defeater of enemies and born in ancient times, Indra is about to hold the full-fledged and thunderbolt like a vessel full of water. 
Only when people grind somalatha do they understand that we drank somras. No one can drink what the Brahmins think of as Som. 
When the Vrithra Asuras challenged the gods for the struggle, they made you the one who was ahead of them. O Balavan Indra! Even in the war of the Maruts you were chosen. 
O mighty-armed Arjun, the material energy consists of three guṇas (modes)—sattva (goodness), rajas (passion), and tamas (ignorance). These modes bind the eternal soul to the perishable body.
By the grace of Sabita Dev, we can walk on the path of truth. Can ascend jupiter's best heaven. By the grace of Savita Dev, we can walk on the path of truth. Can ascend the best heaven of Indra Dev. By the grace of Savita Dev, who raised the truth, we ascended to Jupiter's superior heaven. By the grace of Savita Dev, who raised the truth, Indra dev's superior heaven ascended to heaven. (10)
O man suffering from tuberculosis! I take tuberculosis out from your neck, from blood-filled veins, from the clavicle and chest bones, from the joints, from the shoulders and arms. I also destroy tuberculosis in the arms. (2)
When Vasha wishes to destroy her place, she reveals many forms of desire to be demanded by Brahmins. (30)
Prajapati elaborates this creational yajna and he is the one who compresses it. It is He who extends this creational yagna on earth and in heaven. Like the ray of Prajapati, these gods were sitting in the yajnasthan. He made sammantras in the form of slanted threads to weave the sacrificial fabric. 
O Indra! You are greater than enemies. You are the husband of power, you are comprehensive and master. This is the kind of worship we worship you. (2)
O Indra! You left the water for the birth of all, disturbed the mountains, took away the cows, drank the sweet som and raised the forests. The sun was brighter than indra's deeds migrated by the vedamantras generated for the yagnas. 
Vishwakarmas with a huge mind are themselves great. They are the creators of creation, the best and the seeers of everything. Scholars say that they see higher places than the Saptarshis alone. The wishes of those Saptarshis are fulfilled by havan. 
This stotao! I praise Indra, as your son and grandson's tarak, the enemy destroyer, the giver of food containing cows, and to all. 
May Ahirbudhan give us happiness. Just as the cow comes to satiate the calf, so the Indus river comes to satiate us. We meet fire, the grandson of water, while praising. Clouds that run as fast as the mind carry them. 
Maruto who craves praise! You hear the praises of the hosts and give them heaven and hear their call in the yagnas. 
O earth and the heavens, the Adityas, the Vasuos and the Marutos! Use the great anger of the gods towards the servants of the Ashchinikumars to kill the masters of demons. 
O patient suffering from tuberculosis! I remove tuberculosis from your eyes, from the anus, from the abdomen, from both the axes, from the plaschi and from the navel. (20)
I call upon the fire and the sun. They are beautiful tongue-in-cheek, revolutionary and dev-calling. Let them complete our yajna. 
Vasha is the mother of Kshatriya. The group of washeres appeared earlier. Before donating vasha to Brahmins, that vasha is said to have been offered. (33)
Oh, this maghwa! In this yajna you should be happy for some time. Don't get out of here. We perform your yajna soon with the well squeezed mon. O mighty Indra! Just as the Son takes hold of the end of the Father's garment, so we hold your garment while speaking sweet praises. 
The anger related to the hostile enemy and the sister and the curse that the Brahmin has given by getting angry - these three types of curses should remain under my feet. (2)
The sages have described such a host as sinful, who is miserable and whose people are unhappy along with him. The crime committed by that host by stealing the drops of Somers, mix our host with those drops of Vishwakarma Someras. (2)
O Savita Dev! With your grace, we should follow those paths in the land of space, which are your best paths without dust. May we be fortunate to follow those paths of yours. We can walk those paths of yours safely. Please say you message to us on those paths. (27)
Hiranyarupa, those with the hiranyamaya senses and the hiranyavarnas are adorned by sitting in the ahinpat hiranyamaya place. The hiranyadata hosts donate to them. 
You drink som from the mouths that drink mon. To get som, you muster your beloved chariot and bring it to the host's house. O Ashwinikumaro! You make your path delightful by somras by wearing a somming leather vessel. 
They are death, nectar, avva and they are demons. (4)
Hey Mon! You are squeezed into the vessels for the paan of Vrithrahanta Indra. You are squeezed to bear fruit to the host sitting in the yajnashala with the desire to give dakshina to the ritvijs and to give a greeting to the gods. 
Whatever evils are in me, the malice that I have done to others, the evils that I have spoken to others, or the untrue speech that I have made, O water! Wash them all off. 
One should not abandon duties born of one’s nature, even if one sees defects in them, O son of Kunti. Indeed, all endeavors are veiled by some evil, as fire is by smoke.
O Manu! Come before us and become greater than great and destroy our enemies with the help of your anger. You bring us all the wealth that is destructive, enemy destroyer and bandit destroyer of the one who does not love. (3)
O defeating Indra! When you had thoroughly destroyed the cities of the Shushna Asura, you also took away his wealth. 
I have destroyed the ninety-nine cities of SambarAs at the same time, nauseating by drinking somras. I had given a hundred seas to Divodas, who welcomed the guests to the yagna. 
O protector of water and a friend of truth and Varuna! You sit in your chariot located in the wide sky. Oh my friend and Varun! In this yajna, there is a sweet rain from the sky for the host you protect. 
Indra made the old sink, the penalty, the pile of sesame seeds and the sarkande fuel and separated this agni of Yama through it. (54)
The karm yogis, who are of purified intellect, and who control the mind and senses, see the Soul of all souls in every living being. Though performing all kinds of actions, they are never entangled.
Let Indra, Marudgana, Tvashta, Mitra and Aryama accept our hymns and hamas. 
You plough the deer of the bunks in your chariot. The red deer pulls the yoke of your chariot. The earth and the sky have heard the sound of your coming, and men are afraid. 
Due to the luminous force of Indra, the rivers flowing are adorned in their own place, because Indra has controlled them with his thunderbolt. Indra kills enemies and makes himself a master and provides food for the host who gives havi. (11)
 O Indra! You are mighty. Brahmins are praying to you in a polite voice. Your worshippers are humble. We bow to you blindly and bow down. O worshiper! Don't be jealous of anyone. You sing prayers for Indra that look pleasant to the ears. 
O agni that showers desires! Those who rain Havi, we, those who rain desires, ignite you well. So be well illuminated. (3)
These great agnis are special pain givers. They dig up the elders. This yellow virgin runs away after doing the work. (14)
The constellations that are in space i.e. in the sky, in waters, on lands and mountains and in the directions and the constellations that the moon rises by revealing, those constellations should give me happiness. (1)
We invoke Indra with the marudgana to drink the somras. May they be satisfied with the Indra Marudaganas. 
The host who gives a greeting to the agni with rich riches makes it successful in all the yagnas and calms down by the chandrayanadi vrats, is not devoid of successful children and stays away from sin and pride. 
(Bow to stay in the short path. Bow to stay in the big path. Bow to stay in the hard path. Bow to stay in the hard path. Bow to stay in the lower part of the mountain. Bow to the thin river. Bow to the sarobar one. Bow to the one who lives in the river and lives in the small pond. (37)
O agni! You increase my yajnakarma. These rain-water producers are the earth-earth! You listen to my praise. At the time when the Psalms perform yajnasuti, you should purify everyone by raining. 
 Soma is awake, he is the one who knows the praises. They filter and fall into dronakalsh.  Priests who want to get wealth with rich good hands collect and keep it. 
Day and night, the agni-likes follow the same child, destroying each other's appearance again and again. They are illuminated exclusively in the midst of the stunning agni, earth and sky. The ritwijs have held on to the money-giving agni. 
O Indra! Your money is going to fulfill the yajna of the ultimate satisfaction and host. May those deserts please us who are already ready to come to the yagna. 
Does not serve what is not an extension. (7)
We have come across the darkness of the night. Usha, destroying Nisha's darkness, imparts knowledge to all beings. Just as a man capable of vashikaran comes close to the rich and laughs to please him, so the ushas spreading the light seem to be laughing. The ushas with beautiful bodies have devoured darkness for everyone's happiness. 
O Saraswati! While performing havan of this yajna, we will receive wealth from you through praises. You accept our praise. We will meet with you while we are in your most beloved house, just as birds meet their sheltered tree. 
Poverty is limiting all our hopes. I salute this unfriendly with golden hair. (9)
In the yajna, large food is given as a whole for the bright agni. Therefore, you should also offer the prayer of the agni. These agnis were set up by men in the forepart like a friend and praised. 
O Indra and Agni! Give us money while defeating your enemies. Just as agni burns the forest with the help of air, in the same way people defeat the enemies with the help of money given by agni. Fire kills all the shanrus. 
O aschinikumaro! Your chariot which is going all the way and tied properly and which the host considers it its duty to call day and night, we take the name of the same chariot in this way, in the same way that the Son joyfully takes the name of the Father. 
O Indra! Come near the mon, squeezed by us and mixed with milk. Your chariot with horses called Hari desires us. 
Just as the Ritwijas cut off the killed sacrificial animal and take the organs that are not used in the hooves, etc., and return the principal and interest to the lender, in the same way, we hold all the problems caused by bad dreams on the Maharishi named Trit in the middle of the water. (1)
O Indra! Your vajra, who follows a large number of people, inspired the cloud that stopped the water and the earth of consciousness met you. O brave and defeating Indra! You inspire the waters of the ocean and the sky by becoming a lokpalr because of force. 
    O Mon! Your juice is pure and it flows from heaven touching the high peak of the earth. 
 O Indra! Just as the passerby soon crosses the desert, so come here with horses with romans like peacocks. The hunters who spread the trap can not obstruct you. 
Indra sit well on kush. Praise be spoken specifically. May Jupiter, acclaimed by the sammantras, fulfill our desire. Let us gain rich knowledge and wealth for life. Today we ask the gods for the same famous defense. 
The host refines someras and fills it in dronalakash. It is succulent and food-producing. 
The squeezed somras for indra's sake drips as a stream. The juice of soma satisfies Indra. 
O aschinikumaro! A king named Purupantha gave your stoes hundreds and thousands of horses. O Hero! Give this dakshina to your stotha bharadwaj me. O gods who do many things! Let the monsters be destroyed by your grace. 
 Somerus has been squeezed for Vayu and Indra. Someras is holy and has a thousand streams. The sheep's hair has been filtered with a sieve and prepared. 
O agni! You are the best limbs. The best prayers of the earth towards you are dedicated separately. We worship you to fulfill our wishes. (116)
Sit the mighty, blue-headed and great Jupiter in the yajnashala. They sit in the middle and scatter light throughout the house, are golden in coloured and bright and worshipped by us. 
O Indra Dev! Hoist the victory flag of our chariots. Let's go back playing the dumb. Our dedicated warrior horses roam around. Let our chariots win, our people win. (57)
O Indra! You have appeared with your oz, the rainer of desires, which defeats all. (5)
The agni stoetas are given a horse, a heroic and sacrificial son who wins the food of the enemies in motion and in battle. They walk to beautify the dyava-prithvivi and make the woman veeraprasavini. 
The desireful, satyarupa, violence-free and all-round Soma speaks the words while meeting in the water and on his way to the yajnashala. 
O you are a madman and a mon worth choosing by all! We choose you to be wise, mind-conscious, all protectors, and worthy of the desire of many. 
Brahma, glory, fame, water, sky, celibacy, food, the power to digest food and past, future, faith, goal, heaven, self - all these are attained by the knower of Brahma. (3)
The eleven gods in heaven, the eleven gods on earth and the eleven gods in space, let them serve this yajna with their glory. 
 O Indra! You are rich. Please listen to our prayers. When will you make us good speeched? Come to hear our praises well. Please plough your horses in the chariot to come. 
O wind! Offer you sacrifices for the sea. We offer sacrifices to you to protect everyone. We offer you sacrifices for immense power. We offer sacrifices for the provider of housing for all. They offer sacrifices for peaceful air. Please accept all these sacrifices of ours. (7)
Oh, God! I have done the yajna by which Indra has become powerful and good food. This has made me hostile. 
The earth that knows the smoke in which agni resides, make me bright. (21)
O assh-receiving mon! You give us a variety of food containing horses, cows and gold. 
O God of agni! Burn well by your flames the wicked one who wants to do us violence. 
O Vayu! You drank somrus first. You are the first to drink the soma that is squeezed out. You accept the offerings of innocent and yajna performing hosts. All the cows give milk and ghee for you. 
O sage! In the yajna of this psalmist, praise the priests who give fruit. Sing just as the grass is happy to move to graze, so be the divinely happy. Call the fast-moving maruts like old friends and praise the maruts who desire praise with the words. 
O Supreme Power! We present the yajnaphal to you from all sides. We offer the fruit that we offer to the agni host for you, finally the host comes to the Supreme Vyom. You know the speed of that. (59)
O King Varu! Just as you donated money for the welfare of your father, King Sushama, give money to us, the person and his family. O Usha with wealth and food! You also give us money. 
O Indra! Listen to that hymn of ours and come close to the yajna. Somras is ready. Drink it like a thirsty deer drinks water. 
I am sad and call the gods of agni etc. for money gain. I have followed the rules of the eclipse of Vedamantras and I am making muddy colored dice for gambling, so may the presiding deity of gambling make us happy with Jai Lakshan Phal. (7)
O ladies! Your mother's name is Ishkriti i.e. Rogini, so you are also a godly. You are going to remove the disease and fallout. You make the patient healthy. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! The agni has been lit and the life has been hot for you on it, so you come. O Ashchini Kumars who give the opinion fruit! Cows are milked in large quantities in the karma called Pravargya for you, so you, who destroy the enemies, are happy to serve the Ashchini Kumars through praises. (2)
O Indra! May our true praise satisfy you in the same way that cows satisfy people with their milk. May this praise increase the host who performs the rites of Soma. This praise provides cow etc. to the desired substances. (3)
O Mon, growing up by praises, glorious, intoxicating and dull! Ritwija inspires you to go to Indra. 
May the downward direction i.e. the stationary direction be gracious to us. Vishnu is its ruler, the snake with a black neck is its protector and the tree is its evil perishable arrow. Our greetings to its ruler Vishnu, the protector of the snake with the black neck and the ordnance trees should be pleasing. O Swami Vishnu! The enemies that hinder us or those we hate, we keep them in your molars for your devouring. (5)
Hosts worship in their yajnashalas a brave intellect, ahead of wars and a powerful agni. 
O agni! You are huge, strong and radiant. You destroy malice, demons and diseases. Please put us in a pleasant huge mahayagya. By your grace, we are good-tempered. Give us inner happiness. (49)
Read the hymn for the indra who no one can defeat in the war, the godly and wealthy indra. 
This is the most intoxicating and krant pragya wale mon! You cross the Dashapavitra to attain the place of the revered Indra and flow as a stream. 
O Indra! Those who desire horses, cows and food, we call upon you with new and good wisdom to seek your shelter. (5)
O Indra! Sixty-three sacrificial maruts had raised you up by forming a herd like a cow. We come close to you. You give us food worthy of consumption. We will increase your strength by our word. 
Indra went to his mother and asked for food. Indra looked at the present stunning Som as milk in the breasts of the mother. Indra began to move around, dropping the enemies from their places and did great deeds like vrithrahanan etc. by conducting the limbs in many ways. 
The man who does not leave the agni of Kravyad is not entitled to perform yajna. His glory is destroyed and the called gods do not come to him. (37)
Drink the intoxicating somras given by Indra's intoxicating hymn with more force. When somras is intoxicated, Indra will give us a son who conquers the enemies and destroys their pride. 
The gods who come in the path of yajna with the desire to come close to us with five hundred chariots with horses. I have spoken the hymns related to those gods near Dussim, Prithvivan, Van and the mighty Rama. All these kings are wealthy. 
O sun! You are the destroyer of darkness and the best-keeper. You grow on the sky with your glory. The enemies who want to despise you while shining on the sky, O Jataveda Sun! Destroy them you with your enemy destroyer sharp. After this, do not be afraid of enemies, you should be located in the sky with your glory. (1)
O thousand-armed one, though you are the embodiment of all creation, I wish to see you in your four-armed form, carrying the mace and disc, and wearing the crown.
O earth! You should be wide, thornless and worthy of habitation. You give us enough shelter. 
Those who understand the truth about Supreme Soul, the individual soul, material nature, and the interaction of the three modes of nature will not take birth here again. They will be liberated regardless of their present condition.
O Indra Dev! You are going to crush Vritrasura, the elusive demons and the wicked. You express your heart and our praises. (26)
O man! Get rid of those loops of death and avoid fall. The loops of the death god are going to bind your feet. Do not separate them from the earth while cutting them. You stay in this world to see the agni and the sun. (4)
O agni! You are life-loving and impure. Please provide us with good food. Please remove our obstacles. Please remove the wicked. (38)
How do we serve the generously-donated maruts by the praises of the maruts? By what kind of praise should you worship them properly? May the gods who wake up in the morning not let us violence us and let the gods who are to destroy our enemies. 
Destroy the enemies by wishing the hymns by listening to the agni hymns called by the ignited Shuklavarna and The Havya. 
O men! Savita Dev, please make you energetic. Please air to make you healthy. You achieve all the superiority. All of you get inspired towards karma. You offer your yajna part to Indra Dev. May God give you children. May you be healthy by the grace of God. You should get away from deadly diseases like tuberculosis. The wicked and the thieves should not become your fortune makers. May you get the best protection. Stay away from the wicked. You live under God's shadow. You are a gopati. May the gentleman hosts increase. Protect your livestock. (1)
O Indra! I ask you for strong food. We ask for the same wealth that Bhrigu Rishi experienced peace by getting wealth in the form of food and protected Praskanva, the son of Kanva Rishi. (6)
O aschinikumaro! You make our yajna heaven-touching, speedy and violence-free. You give us happiness to fulfill our desire and make the agni offered by the abomination oriented to the gods. Today we ask the gods for the same famous defense. 
Agni Dev is the best of all the gods and purifies the paths with honey. (2)
O Indra, praised by many and brave indra! We are immediately fulfilling what you wished for from the ancient hosts. We offer you the yajna, the ukattha or the hymn of praise to you quickly. 
O Indra! Just as water completes the stream, so listen to the praises of the previous sages and our praises and accept them and increase our food. O Lord of horses named Hari, Indra, we have made new praises for you. Let us be the masters of the chariot and your servants. 
O leaders and businessman AshwiniKumaro! Vriki had called you out of the desire to give nourishment to the blind, because Rizash has given me a hundred and one pieces of Aries in the same way as the young erotic gives a lot of money to a stranger. 
Just as the mother follows the son, similarly follow the Marudgan verses in this yajna. This sacrifice is good for the marudgans. (5)
O rich Indra! Please and give us the food that does not end. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Turn the enemies away from us and make wealth accessible to us. Be our protectors and be the enhancers of the great wealth of our friends. 
Brahma, glory, fame, water, sky, celibacy, food, the power to digest food and past, future, faith, goal, heaven, self - all these are attained by the knower of Brahma. (1)
Salutations to the north direction of the school. Sacrifice should be auspicious for these great gods worthy of swaha. (28)
O agni! We will serve you through hymn groups and food grains. O Holy One and a agni of good light! Give us the money we want by all and give us all the assets. 
O agni! You are going to give gold to the host who performs enough yajnakarma. You are the stunning Savita wearing the gemstone. O agni, the lord of men! To those who serve you, you give money. You obey the host who serves you in the yajnashala. 
The object of praise of many, Vishnu had single-handedly walked through all the Bhuvanas by three stages. God is pleased in these people. 
O human agni! Monsters can't drink cow's milk for up to a year. The demon who comes forward to drink this nectar-like god, your soul is shattered through your flames. 
O Brahmachari Brahman! We should wear the eye, the area i.e. yajna in the stotras. You should hold food, semen, blood and the whole body in us. (25)
O water! You confirm the medicines that protect my body, so that we can see the sun for a long time. 
O agni! You come with all the gods and make friends with the Ashchinikumars and Usha. Come to the yajna and be pleased with the somras in the same way as the sages of Atri attain happiness. 
The wild elephant is the king due to its excess of force among the animals like deer etc. living voluntarily in the forest. I water myself with the speed of that elephant's fate. (6)
The sun rises from Dyulok i.e. its place of residence to protect the pur. In that bed-bearing tree, I make your king enter with his wife and people, may that man give you happiness and armor, that is, protection. (3)
Purvashadha Nakshatra of Water God give me good food to eat. May the Uttarashada Nakshatra of vishwa devas give us a strong juice. May the Abhijit Nakshatra of Brahma Devta give me virtue. Shravan Nakshatra of Vishnu Dev and Dhanishta Nakshatra of Vasudev Devta should also follow me well. (4)
O Sage of Medhati! Drink the Somras and read indra's hymns with vajradhari and gold chariots, who help in squeezing the somras, which connects the horses named Hari to the chariot when he is drunk. 
We give you the upward direction, Jupiter, snake and Ishuman year. Protect it until we leave. Get it as our destiny till old age and give old age death. When we die, let us go to heaven with this beautiful odan and get happiness there. (60)
 O agni! You also provide protection to all happiness and gods. Please come to us with food. 
 O agni! People who want strength greet you. I also salute you. You destroy the enemies with your force. 
O Jataveda Sun! I subdue the elusive asuras who carry iron nets and carry iron traps in their hands to kill those who do good deeds. O thousand number of weapons and thunderbolts! Destroy the enemies in excess and follow us. (1)
For the thunderous Indra, the earth had milked Somras with waterfalls, water and clouds. 
I call the Ashvrinikumaras who are in shodhan karma and who appear to accept our wishes. The friendship of the Ashwinikumars is considered to be the best of all the gods. 
O agni! You were the god invoker of the host of Manu's followers and the lord of their wealth. Those followers had desired semen in their bodies with the desire to produce sons. They renounced attachments and lives with their capable sons for a long time. 
This is an act! This is the way. You have been sent to us by the enemy. We send you to him. Attack our enemies like an army of bullock carts, speech and many heroes. We return you with the power of mantras. (15)
Usha's car, which was broken by Indra, fell on the banks of the Vipasha river. Usha walked away from him. 
I will serve varuna, a lover and a confidant, without sin, as adequately as a devotee. Varun Dev, the lord of all, let me complete knowledge to the uninformed. Inspire the highly learned Varuna Stota to get wealth. 
Who can stop indra's exploiting force? The unsung Indra alone takes away the assets of the enemies. The mighty earth-sky began to walk quickly, fearful of the force of the fastened Indra. 
Just as in war, a warrior-inspired horse crosses the desired direction, so mon crosses the white-colored and watery kalash. Those who wish for the gods praise The Ritwiz Som. Som had given the animals to the over-moving Kandhivan rishi. 
 O agni! You are ignited by prayers. Please again and again appear in the Yagya Mandap for the welfare of the hosts. The host spoke good hymns for Rudra. 
Just as the son obeys the father, similarly the host listens to Agni's command quickly and acts according to his orders. Agni, The swami of various food grains gives wealth, which is the means of yajna. Agni, who was attached to the yagyagriha, adorned the sky with stars. 
The mother of the woman whom we are willing to control should sleep first. After this, his father, the dog protecting the house and the owner of the house, his husband should also sleep. His brothers and sisters and the people around him appointed to protect his house should also sleep. (6)
The muddhasha cow, which does words and wears havi in the form of milk, comes in the field of karma. She empowers the word of those who get shelter of gau devas with their milk. (8)
O God of agni, the knower of those who are born! By igniting well with the ghee etc. done by us, burn the demons with your flames like iron teeth. Those who play the game of killing others through witchcraft, touch them with your tongue and close your mouth by destroying the meat-eating monster vampire etc. (2)
 O agni! You are the father's 
I beseech by the hymn of the lampth, the one who walks in the yagna, the one who desires, the seer of all, the symbol of heaven, the one who is in the sun, the awakening in the morning, the shisha of heaven, the foody and the great agni. His word doesn't stop anywhere. 
O Indra! These new and ancient mons have been squeezed for you. Drink them and be strong. O praiseworthy and innovative Indra! Just as you drank the previous mon, drink this new mon. 
These Somas are the doers of everything, those who are not accepted by the anrs, the leader of all, the creator of fruits, the knowledgeable, the meritorious and the worshiper of the psalms. 
O Brahmaspati! You, the Goddess named Soma, Indra and Dakshina, protect the host from the sin. 
We call the masters of the wealth of wealth, Ashvinikumaras, close to us through camels and hymns. O Ashwinikumaro! You have always performed sompan in the beloved yagna of the Kanvaputras. 
Those who, with the help of the host ritwijas, who wear gold, sit in the yajnashala and receive the leader gods, they hold the host yajna's holder and satyaswaroop agni in the best place of the north altar. 
 Someras is immortal and holy. He springs to the gods and generations of them. It filters and pervades them 
The worthy of yajna are inspired by the agni air and spread around in the same way as the multi-speaker clown praises a variety of praises. All the worlds are located in the path of agni with burning, krishna marg and holy birth. 
O Shataudana Gau! God, Pitar, Man, Gandharva, and Apsaras - all of them will protect you. You go beyond the sacrificial karma called Atishaya. (9)
Those who are indifferent to worldly gain, externally and internally pure, skillful, without cares, untroubled, and free from selfishness in all undertakings, such devotees of mine are very dear to me.
Used as a medicine, barley has been ploughed with a plough with eight bulls and six bulls. O patient! With that barley, I remove sin due to the disease of your body. (1)
Those who perform yajna by the will of the gods call Saraswati. At the time of the extension of the yajna, the virtuous workers called Saraswati. Give money to saraswati host. 
O Ashwini Devo! Please cherish our yajna with sweet speech. With sweet speech, we have also moulded the yajna. We have taken Havi in the urn for both of you. That's your native place. Please sit on your prescribed seat in the yajna. (11)
Agni is as nutritious as the mother of all the sacrificial deities and revered as a guest to all human beings. Let the psalms be the food eaters and the omniscient agni givers. 
Patient people know these omnipotent maruts. The earth held them in space. 
O Fire and Mon! Follow our horses. Increase our cows that produce ksheer etc. You give strength to us with wealth and enrich our yajna. 
In the war in which arrows fall like the Mundatshir Kumaras, may Brahmanaspati and Aditi give us happiness forever. 
O lord of the glory, the giver of the calli, the destroyer, the protector of the people and the agni that makes the havan! For your purpose, the home of the havya is done with mantras. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
O golden colored Maruto! You have covered me well around, pleased with me and wearing admirable fame and food. You definitely cover me up." 
These go like a bird towards the kalash to be located without death and glistening soma. 
When devout persons with ardent faith practice these three-fold austerities without yearning for material rewards, they are designated as austerities in the mode of goodness.
Indra is well published in humans. They are praiseworthy. Enemies are going to win. We praise those great Indras. 
Where is indra, the rainy man, the daily young man, the giant neck, and the one who does not bow down? Who worships them? 
 O Indra! You are capable. You do hundreds of jobs. Your arms wear thunderbolts. You are hostile, omnipresent and glorious. 
O Indra! You complete this world with water and become the master of all and hold a thunderbolt in your hand. You are powerful. All gods praise you. You face the clouds downwards. 
O God of Agni! Drive these demons away from your flames and destroy them. You drive away fools from your flames. Those who are satisfied by destroying the lives of others, kill them. (49)
O you who hurry, Maruto! Your beloved name we call. The desireful deserts are satisfied with it. 
O Pashupati! Salutations to your hands, feet etc. Salutations to your tongue, mouth, teeth and your smell to the customer sense nose. (6)
May we connect with Savita Dev. May we get the power worthy of heaven from them. (2)
O agni set by the lord! You be stunning and protector. Let no one violence you, for you are going to defeat the enemy. You become as syllable and hostile as a knight. I'll describe your names. 
Oh, a deathless agni! The man who wants to give samidahas for you or gives a sacrifice, you become his, you become messengers, you give invitations to gods and become hosts and give havan to gods. 
O Lord Indra! Just as the father protects the son, the Ashwini kumaras also protected you by drinking somras that had become unclean with wrong mantras due to contact with demons. (34)
O Gandharva with qualities like charity! You be the ones who kill those who do our violence in the north direction. Air is your arrow, let it protect us. You call us yours. We greet you and sacrifice. (4)
O Aghnya! Destroy the foxes of your abductor and remove his skin. (7)
O God of agni! You are the one who protects the yagnakarma among human beings and are worthy of praise in the yajna. 
But those who dedicate all their actions to me, regarding me as the Supreme goal, worshiping me and meditating on me with exclusive devotion, O Parth, I swiftly deliver them from the ocean of birth and death, for their consciousness is united with me.
One of the sages keeps a red-colored udak i.e. blood on the earth, the other keeps the meat cut with a knife and the third cleans the excreta from that meat. What do parents get from the sages? 
Friend and Varun are Aditi's sons. We increase both of these. O Varuna! You increase the strength of this army with half milk, ghee etc. and increase yourself by half. O gods of heaven and earth! We describe the bodies described by the learned sages with our true speech. (9)
O agni! You are a devotee. We also become powerful by following your words. You have fulfilled our aspirations. We are the same as we were when we performed yajna (even after receiving the yagna fruit). (28)
O Gods! Son of Ushij, I recite a hymn suited to you to call you to The Kambivan. O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the Brahmavadini Mahila Ghosha praised you for the destruction of her white leprosy, so too do I praise you. I praise the fruit-giving god and the fire that gives money. 
We invite the ancestors with mantras that sing the stories of brave men. We invite the ancestors again and again from the heart. (53)
O school! You are going to possess many pleasures. Due to many Veda mantras and being ripe, calves and children come to you with various types of food made fragrant and cows should come dripping milk from the udders in the evening. (3)
O rich water! You are the residence of wealth. Bring nectar for us by completing this welfare yagna of ours. You become the guardian of our wealth and blessed children. Give money to Saraswati Stota. 
Hosts who give an evil gesture by demons for the main agni make their bodies sinless. Let the newborn Agne drive away the enemies gathered like an angry lion. May the present enemies everywhere be far away from me. 
These are the many forming Aschinikumaro! You both come to this yagna with your golden chariot, drink the sweet somarah and give delightful wealth to the serving host. 
O Indra! You drink this hawaid, well-established and well-squeezed somras on the north-vend. You give us welfare, be happy with your heart and go ahead to give us rich fortune. 
Many sages named Kanva, Shreevan, Purumidh, Agastya, Shyavashva, Saubhari, Vishwamitra, Jamadagni, Agni, Kashyap and Vamdev are our protectors for worship. (15)
I had known all the births of the Indradi Devas while I was in the womb. Earlier, hundreds of iron bodies had protected us and exhumed us from the body as a soul like a lion bird. 
Just as this sun is highly illuminated and just as it is bright, so may the gem made of the varan tree give me fame and opulence. This gem makes me stunning and successful. (17)
O mighty Indra! If by your grace I become the master of the cows, I will wish to give this hymn and give the property demanded by it. 
 O hosts! Someras has been extracted by crushing stones. Clean tax has been filtered. You add cow's milk to that someras. 
O Indra! At the time of reciting ukath mantras, you come near this yajna and please us. 
I call many Sinivali, Raka, Saraswati, Indrani and Varunani for my protection and happiness. 
O Indra! We know you that you make the desired rainfall and listen to our prayers in the battlefield. You are going to fulfill all desires. We call for your protection which provides thousands of types of wealth. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You sit with him in Indra's chariot and walk. You are also full of the vikramas of Aditya and The Rainbows, the loving and the wicked ones of Vishnu. (2)
The medicines that are nearby, those who are far away, which are grown in various forms, all of them listen to our prayers. Please give us semen (power) together with all the medicines. (94)
O glorious agni! The priest who praises you as a yajnakarta, let him be rich. O great and great agni! The host you protected attacks enemies like terrible sin. 
The branch originating from the formless is located. Human beings consider him to be the best element and worship that branch. (21)
 O Indra! Give us the same effort and steady wealth that you have. 
O Indra! We best describe the deeds you have done when you go to Stotagan Som Nichud. Let those who do not know our deeds that you have accepted. Let those who know them hear those who do not know them. May Dhanaswami and the wise Indra, along with all his armies, go to the knowers and hearers. 
Let us, by the grace of Pusha, be compatible with a person who will show off the house containing our lost animals and say that these are your animals. 
This gem made from the Jaegir tree defeats others, destroys the eaters like kriya etc. and is the medicine of all diseases. This jangid mani saved us from sin. (3)
O Pashupati! This universe and the universe, which possesses sinful deeds, are yours. All exist within this fund. O Pashupati! You make us happy. Hello to you. By your grace, let the jackals and dogs that defeat us go away from us to the land. Even the vampires who cry out loud should go away from us. (11)
O Sun God. (10)
 Indra is a vajradhari. They are gold jewellers. On hearing his voice, horses named Hari join the chariot. Now they are going to plough their same horses together in the chariot. 
 O hosts! Indra has very fast-paced horses. He is a very rich indra. They protect us from obstacles. We sing Brihatsam and call them for protection in the same way as children call their parents to protect themselves. 
Hey Mon! In the loka in which the sons of Vivasvan are the king, where there is a gate to heaven and where the great rivers of the Ganges are located, take me to the same godless realm and throw down your juice for Indra. 
O agni that is revered in all the yagnakamas! Protect us by being happy because of the editing of our Gayatri versed sukta. 
At the time when human beings perform yajna, King Som is acclaimed while going to Dronakalash by the space route. 
Those who chastise with weapons etc. cannot get us. Those who come forward and do violence cannot find us. O Supreme God of Epulence Indra! Drop the arrows with many types of faces repeatedly left by the enemies in a place far away from us. (1)
Oh, this desireful Indra! Squeeze the somras with the desire for you to squeeze the somras. O simple speed Indra! Give us money. O Indra, who is in front of the ashes called Hari and full of desires! The one who squeezes the mon in the water has held it for you. 
O deathless, with a golden chariot, dear and speaking the truth, Usha! You become illuminated by the sunshines. Call you a golden horse, a horse that is strong, red and easily connected to the chariot. 
O medicine named Lakh! You should mix the skin separated from the body to the skin due to the blow. O wounded man! Blood started running on your bones. O medicine! Whatever is the cut part of the body, it was able to do daily activities by adding it. (5)
We should combine the mind of others with our mind and wake up and become compatible with the actions of others. We should not be separated from others due to the mind related to God i.e. the mind that has reverence for the gods. Don't get up with words about too much crookedness. When the day comes out, we should not hear the voice of Indra like a thunderbolt. (2)
O Indra Dev! You are our friend. You always get an increase. You are pleased with our sacred instinct and pleased with us. (39)
Those possessing a demoniac nature do not comprehend what actions are proper and what are improper. Hence, they possess neither purity, nor good conduct, nor even truthfulness.
O Indra! Just as you had performed somapan in the sacrifices of sages like Angira etc. in ancient times, do the same in this yajna of ours. May the drunk som please you. You listen to our mantra-form hymns. May you receive growth through our praises. You illuminate the sun. Make food our means of consumption and destroy our enemies. O Indra! Bring us our cows stolen by the waters. (1)
O Indra! I have praised you. They have come near you to heaven. You have accepted those praises. You are the one who wants to rain and the protector of the host. 
The chariot, which fulfilled the desires, adored the gods, had entered the eastern direction of space. After this, the hidden, diverse-colored and ubiquitous sun hidden in the middle of heaven, move around the east and west of the sky and protect it. 
In ancient times Somras was given to Indra. Because of that, he became equally, brilliant and great. They are Indra! Take this given mon and drink the som that has been squeezed by stones and bears heavenly fruit. 
The god serves the force of the agni with which the devapatrithvi is in control of. He is a true-doer. 
Marudgana has gained importance by being anointed by the gods. Those Rudraputras have found a place in the sky. By worshipping and strengthening the worthy Indra, the sons of the earth, the Maruts have attained greater glory. 
We get the beauty of The World, The King of the World, the Beauty of the World. And God observes the world and is born here. They are as bright as the sun. We accept them in upayam. That is their original place. (7)
The Indras whom we have praised, the dhanvan indras fulfill our wish. Indra's enemies are afraid even when they are far away and the property of the enemy's district comes under indra's possession. 
A good charioteer sitting on a chariot takes the horses wherever he wants. Rein should also be praised. They keep the minds of horses under their control, they take them wherever they want. (43)
O Indra! Sit on your workman's chariot, because the squeezed somras and the sweet abomination is ready for you. O karyati Indra! Join your horses in the chariot and come before us in a fast-moving chariot to do favor to the hosts who do good deeds. 
O Indra! In the spirit of destroying the enemies, you went to the house of the dogs, the dogs desperately wished for your friendship, after which both of you sat in the Indra-Bhavan. Satyadarshini, your wife Shachi, was skeptical to see the same look of both of you. 
The king of germs was killed and his secretary was also killed. The germs that were also killed by mothers, brothers and sisters were destroyed. (4)
O Indra! You come to our yajna. O Sompati Indra! Drink the somp that has been squeezed with stones. O ye ye drink somras with the rain-fed maruts, O celestial and the most of the enemies. 
We turn to the side and choose mountain-related and water-related pleasures. Let the earthly sin be taken away from us. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the Bhriguvanshis made the chariot, we have made this hymn for you. Just as the kanya is adorned to give to the son-in-law, in the same way we have decorated this chariot. We hold this hymn as the sacrificial son forever. 
O thunderbolt Indra! Just as people go to the goshala with cows, so I come to you with praises. You fulfill the wealth desire and desire of my sonta. 
 O Indra! Make us fearless with what we are afraid of. Give us abhaya charity. Destroy our enemies and those who killed us. 
O God of the World! You join our hearts together. We should meet Vayu, Dhata and Saraswati. 
O Indra and Agni! These hymns praise you. O Indra and Agni, who give happiness! Drink this somras. 
O Indra! Just as barley is made delicious by mixing it with cow's milk, in the same way we have made the somras tasty by adding cow's milk.  I call you to the yajna for drinking that somras. 
Indra first of all, made his enemy asuras without bhujbal. With the help of indra, our warriors, who are firm in the war and with the help of our assistant Indra, defeat the enemies. (3)
Space is cow and air is big of that. That cow should provide me with sufficient quantity of strong food due to the calf of air. May the wind give me a hundred years of age, subjects, confirmation and wealth. This is the best sacrifice. (4)
Being purified, Mons are created in the advanced places of heaven and earth and in the devyagna. 
Manu is Indra and Manu is the whole God. Varuna and Jataveda are agni, who invoke the Manu devas. Those who are human beings also praise Manu. O Manu! You unite with penance and protect us. (2)
 O Mon! You are holy and flow with waves. Someras is used in all three evenings 
O the rain-making Vishwadevas! Just as the sun's rays come into the day without laziness, so come quickly to drink the prepared somras. 
When the sun comes out, I call him and the holy-spirited Varuna. Their strength is not diminishing and is high. They conquer all enemies in the war. 
O bride! You be enriched with the beloved offspring in this husbandry. In this house you be careful to run the household. Combine your body with this husband. You both call this house yours until you're both old. 
O homanarpadak and yajnakarmagnigar agni! In this yajna we choose you, so you bring our greetings to the gods, calm them down and come close to Som knowing the yajna. 
 O Mon! You are prevalent in the three bhuvanas and the three savanas. You inspire Indra with your stream. The best karma 
Indra, who knew the remedy, had revealed the cows to the Angiragotrian sages. I praise that heroic deed of Indra. 
May Rudra, Vayu, Aditya and Agni Dev be the cause of peace for us. May the seven Maharishis with superhuman radiance, Indra etc. Dev and Jupiter, the priest of the gods, be the reason for our peace. (11)
Just as the vast earth conceives all ghosts, that is, creatures, so I conceive you and call you to protect it. (2)
They come together in the famous, yajnapatra and rakshak vishvadev yajnas. O agni! Perform the yajna of the gods who desire us in our yajna and quickly worship bhaga, ashchinikumaras and indra. 
Indra pierced the cloud with a large arrow to make cooked food for humans. 
O strange and abode-giving agni! You inspire wealth towards us with defense tools. You are the leader of this wealth. Give our children a reputation soon. 
The organs of Indra Dev were connected to the soul by Vaidya Ashwinikumars and Saraswati connected the soul to the organs. He made indra's form immortal till the age of a hundred. Gave impermanence to Jyoti with the moon. (93)
Both the upper teeth should be allowed by God, friendly, pleasant and beautiful. Oh my two teeth! Make an icon indicating Narmada. He should prosper in the form of chilla son, grandson etc. (3)
Hey Mon! You sift from dashapavittra made of sheep's hair and get havirup food, good fortune and wealth from cows. 
O God! Destroy tijari, chauthia, rain related, autumn, summer fever as well as cold fever. (13)
They are patient and friends of stable power. They are going to travel along the way and protect our children on their own. 
Get to know the agni, who is luminous, habitable and universal in nature like the morning Sun. The rays of agni itself, carrying the fire and spreading through the entrance of the Yagyagriha, spread in the visible sky. 
O Indra! The one with a tribe like me or a tribe other than me who wants to destroy me, subdue these two types of enemies under the host who curses soma (3)
Fire is produced for the sake of excellence of food. Vines desiring food enter the teeth of the fire. Both the ritwij and the host try to create the fire, so pure fire is young by gracious to the hosts. 
O Jupiter! The one who gives you the good food, you lead him from the just way and save you from sin. It is your importance that you hurt the one who opposes the yajna and do violence to the enemies. 
Indra has gained authority over human groups with the force of his indestructible and hostile force. Indra becomes the best and the one who dwells with the leaders by success, strength, wealth and semen. 
O agni! Just as Behelia spreads the net, so do you spread your fear-mongering bright group. Just as the king walks with his minister, so do you also move forward with your speeds. Walking after the fast-moving enemy army, destroy it and abuse the demons with your most hot radiances. 
O Immortal Usha! You find the praise so sweet. No man is able to consume you. O special effects shalini! Which man will you get? 
Just as the asura named Panai had locked the cows in the cave, so were his water-shaped wives protected by Vrithra. The way of the water flowing was also blocked. Indra killed Vritra and opened the door. 
The Soms who touch heaven, who wear a sharp armor, are worthy of yajna and complete the space with water, flow in water together and with water, producing heaven, and serve the water's guardian and the ancient Indra. 
Just as the cows go in their flock, so the badhiya bulls given by Prithushrava come to me. 
Indra climbed on to the haired and huge horses to strengthen the body. Indra ran both his jaws and asked for food. 
May Indra give us happiness with the gods named Vasu. May Varun, who has shoban praises, well-being with Aditya Devs. May Sukhkari Rudra give us happiness with Rudras. Tvashta Dev should be the one who gives us happiness in this yagya with all the dev wives. (6)
We call that Indra to kill the great Vritra demon. May indra, the desire, shower money for us. 
O Indra! All the gods on earth, sky, and without death accept your strength. O multi-worker Indra! You do your undecided work. After this, you give birth to a more new hymn in the yagnas. 
The new poison has also stopped mixed with the ancient poison. Thus the poison has been destroyed. Agni has destroyed snake venom. Som has taken away the snake's venom. The snake that bit him received its venom, due to which he died. (26)
O Maruto! The path to the mountains is destined for the movement of your chariot. Rivers are the surest way to get protection and strength. 
O agni! My speed in the battles may be justified. We reinforce your body by igniting you. All four directions wrinkled for me. By making you president, we conquer enemy armies. 
"Who will shelter the visionless Virgo nature born of Indra in me, knowing it absorbed in me? Which god throws thunderbolt at enemies like Vritra etc. No one can afford or choose this enemy other than me." 
This is an act! The magicians have secretly made you on the cushions, in the dead, or in the field, or they have made you by cooking on the agni. I make you powerless because you are guiltless. (18)
This is the wish-filled Ashwinikumaro! You brought out the sage Rebh lying in the cave and dying. You calmed the agni by raining for the sage Atri, who was tied to seven bonds and thrown into the burning agni pit. 
With my mantra power, the poison produced in the east direction and north direction becomes ineffective. The poison produced in the south, west and downward direction should become weak from the lotus (rice).  (2)
O Indra! In your yajna, the present and violence-free Mon was held by the fingers for great karma. 
Savita give us money three times a day. With the deepest and shobhan hands, we want the meaning we want with the inspiration of vast earth-sky, friend-varuna, space and savita dev. 
O friend of the people who save from grief and Varun! Protect us by your means of protection and follow us by your adherence. Let us eliminate our enemies with the help of our sons. 
O agni! In going to your face or in the face of you, a soft fur with flowers should be produced in our country. Water springs should be generated in our house and field and a lake with lotus should be built. (1)
O Indra and Soma! Both of you accept the praise made by us from all sides, just as the rope binds powerful horses. We inspire both of you with wisdom worthy of invocation. May our mantras please you in the same way that kings are happy to hear the words of charans. (6)
 Just as we can see the flame of burning agni, so we can see the illuminated rays of the sun. They can see everyone. 
Those who enjoy the pleasures of happy heaven do not expect worldly enjoyments. He is the best scholar in the holder of yajna. They spread their bright glory. They ascend above heaven and earth. (68)
O serpent named Arbudi! When the poison spreads in the body due to the bite, the enemy's wife wishes her son to destroy the poison, after this, the husband also wishes and wishes his relatives to remove the poison. (8)
Agni said, "O Varun! I have come here afraid of the act of carrying the haavya. I don't want the Devas to engage me in the same task of carrying the same thing as before. Because of this fear, my body is hidden in the water in many ways. I will no longer accept this act of conveyance." 
The gods have produced food, cows, horses, trees, vegetation, earth, mountains and water and offered the sun to the sky. The gods with shobhan donation have done excellent work on earth. 
May Agni and Prithvi Dev be kind to be compatible with us. Please give us pleasure. May the gods of air and space be compatible with us. Please give us pleasure. Please aditya and heaven to be compatible with us. Please give us pleasure. May Water and Varun Dev be kind to suit us. Please give us joy. Please make the seven Parliaments (Fire, Air, Space, Sun, Sky, Water and Varuna) and the eighth Earth compatible with us. By your grace, let our yajna sakam (those who bring the desire to fruition). By your grace, we should have cognizance (best complete knowledge). (1)
 O Mon! You are not inspired by others. Your juice is green. You are duly squeezed. You come to our yajna. Do not give food, money to the enemies of yajna and host and people who do not donate even if they want food. Let our prayers reach out to the gods for whom we are. 
Aditya is the south eye of this vratya. (1)
O seven sages who fulfill the wish and friends of the world! You generate smoke through arani churning. These agni gods listen to the verses of praise and protect the hosts with good character from enemies. These agnis, including the Devas, defeat the Devashatru armies. With the help of agni, the devas defeated the demons. (2)
Brihat and Rathantar were the sides of that post, that is, the planks or planks of the agni. Yajnayagya and Vamdevya were his slanted planks. (5)
We extend this yajna like threads and worship Usha with that yajna. 
Praise the same Indra whom many have called and whom many have praised.  Serve the great Indra through hymns. 
 Usha is worthy of worship. She is the mother of Rashmis and a friend of Ashwinikumars. 
This sickness! You should quickly move away from the patient's body like the Neelkanth, hawk, air or goh. 
The Supreme soul is imperishable, without beginning, and devoid of any material qualities, O son of Kunti. Although situated within the body, it neither acts, nor is it tainted by material energy.
Just as yajna is obtained by doing Agnihotra and Vashat, in the same way, this gem made of varan tree gives me fame and opulence. (22)
O Ashwinikumaro, who satisfies many hosts, who possesses many yagnakarmas, is worthy of choice, and is not stopped by others! I'm coming close to you. I call both of them to my yajna to protect myself. 
The sky was able to rain over the earth that fulfilled the will. The water in the form of pregnancy was between the clouds. After this, the calf-like water said the word. After this, with the help of cloud, air and sun rays, vishwarupa became the earth with crops. 
May the sages who compose sixteen richas get this sacrifice well. (13)
Oh Devas! They do not speak bad things towards the deities, husband and wife and do not want to end their intellect towards you. They serve you with more food. 
O act! Just as the Son goes to the Father, so go near to your Creator. Just as a snake bites when pressed, so you bite him, who made you. Just as a broken bond falls on your own body, so return to the creator. (10)
O friends, Aryama, Varuna and Marudgan! You give us a house which is non-violent, full of sonhood, praiseworthy and preventive of cold, heat, rain. 
 O priests! Filter the somers squeezed with stones and deliver them to the matkas. For Indra to drink, you make Someras pure. 
O Indra! In addition to seeing people's property and homes, you rescue cows held up by demons. O Indra! You rule the same people as the leader and are the aggressors in war. Give us huge sums of money. 
O Ashwinkumaro, the o omensy of usha! May what is desired in your heart be achieved by your gracious intellect. Be our beloved and protector. We are going to enjoy happiness in homes by the grace of Sun God. (5)
The medicine that Jamadagni Rishi had dug to enhance his daughter's hair, which was stolen by Veethavya Maharishi from the house of a muni named Asit Kesh to increase his hair. (1)
O Indra called by many! Be the one who strengthens my body at this time. You give riches in food in wars and give money to our sons, etc. 
O agni! You are the only one who suits the season and do the work of the grandson. For the one who performs the yajna, you are the god and the agni. You are the one who is the grihapati in The Prashakta, the Adhwaryu, the Brahma and our house. 
O Indra who fulfills desires! You tilt the axis in the form of the sun and make Rohini with a wide face. You cut off the head of the vritra asura. (11)
Tied with a leather rope, Rahat repeatedly waters a place where there are crops. (13)
May those who are your life-saving sages, called realization, remembrance, self-realization, and awakening, stay awake day and night, (10)
O Varun Dev! Listen to my call today. Give me happiness today. I'm calling you with my desire to protect you. 
Karya, the goddess of sin, is getting red-coloured from anger. The act is left to associate with this woman. People of her jati are growing up and her husband is in bondage. 
The man who gives a greeting to Vishnu, who is praised by many people, worships by speaking many mantras at the same time and serves the man-benevolent Vishnu, that man gets his desired wealth quickly. 
The eternal and new wealth given by Vrithrahanta Indra in a distant country should be told by the learned people in the meetings. 
A steady year holds six seasons. The truth and the most old sun form receives the rays of samvatsar. The three peoples that arise and perish are located above each other. In them are hidden in the same heaven and space cavity. Only earth is visible. 
Even if hundreds of other Brahmins plead with the owner of the cow, but the vasha belongs to the scholar, such is the saying of the gods. (22)
With the effect of my mantras, conscious herbs should come here and destroy the sin caused by this disease. (7)
O Ashwinikumaro! Let the best chariot of one of you in yellow come to the land of the yagna according to our will and please the other by giving praises to man and his horses with churned food. 
Those who had covered the Angira gotri Brahmins with great sama with objections and plagues, Brahma gave them a son who was going to destroy them. The devas threw away their children. (2)
 O agni! You gleam. Your mouth is published. In that mouth, the tongue eats the havi inserted in the flame of agni. You are going to give money. You give food and delightful money. 
O Indra! You are an enemy destroyer. That is why you drop water by penetrating the water-bearing cloud like the skin and forcing the moving cloud to catch it like a human being and rain. O Indra! We will tell you this work of yours, from the sky, from the glorious Rudras, to the friends who bring happiness to the people and to Varuna. 
This ocean is located below the sea, the sea and the land. (20)
O Indra and Varuna! The host who gives you the havya on his own, he will become a benefactor, a rich man and a yajnakarta. Such a giver conquers the glorious enemy and receives a wealthy-son with wealth. 
The adhwaryu (priest) of this yajna should reduce your defects and guide you for your discipline. Please make your body and your joints powerful. (42)
You are mabhri (means of digging soil). You are a woman. By your grace, we could get the power to hold agni on earth like Angira Rishi with the influence of Jagati verses. (10)
Indra has subdued the enemies by his power and has ended the anger of others with his power. O great Indra! All your enemies have been dashed like trees. 
Those who serve me with unalloyed devotion rise above the three modes of material nature and come to the level of Brahman.
Somdev mix the waters to be combined in this yajna. This sacrifice should be for them. (10)
The host is fasting and he is engaged in removing evil. The host is doing this suyagya to attain the best kingdom. They should become prajapalaks. (27)
You are Maghvan i.e. Indra. You are full of hundreds of gods and great by glory. (16)
O great, brilliant, bright, mountain-like mighty and fast-moving deserters! You have given strength to the red-colored barwa, so you eat a group of trees like a trunked elephant. 
 O Indra! You are big-handed. You take the money that is worthwhile for us in your right hand. That money is very praiseworthy. be taken by many people. 
O Indra, who showers desires! We call you to drink the host squeezed Mon. You drink sweet soma. (1)
May the agni satiated by the human beings be beneficial to us. O agni with riches! May your charity be good to us. May your sacrifice and your praises be well-being to us. 
O Adhwaryujano! Satisfy Indra with sweeter food than honey. This Indra always accepts praises while increasing the host. (4)
O God of Agni! You, being the chief among the gods, reach a place worthy of performing yajna. Due to the delivery of agni, Indra is as dear to gods like eyes and makes human beings see the holy world through yajna. The Bhriguvanshis, who want to perform yajna in the light of agni and perform yajna, have become equally loving with maharishis and attain heaven as the result of yajna, (5)
O aschinikumaro! As wise as Poosha and the one who wears the hat, your host praises you like fire and usha. Along with the service-abiding hymn, the host also praises you, so that we can gain food, strength and long life. 
Completely renouncing all desires arising from thoughts of the world, one should restrain the senses from all sides with the mind. Slowly and steadily, with conviction in the intellect, the mind will become fixed in God alone, and will think of nothing else.
Bribu had provided me a thousand songs to the money seeker at the same speed as the wind. 
The seating places of these worms were destroyed and the places around them were also destroyed. The worms which were in seed form were also destroyed. (12)
Just as the bulls get their share and become intoxicated, become strong, so the ancestors get their share and become strong and intoxicated. (31)
O world-shaking and chief Mon! You pour water from space while inspiring our eulogies. 
O agni! Wishing for profit from business, I sacrifice havya with ghee to get the power of quick movement. I praise you with mantras and put my behavior efficient intellect in the burnt to be with innumerable wealth. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! You put the head of the horse on the torso of Dadhichi, the son of Atharva.  He told you the honey-learning he received from the skin, making the promise of the prophecy a truth. O you see! That is what became the science of the class related to you. 
O sun! We stayed strong for a hundred years. (5)
The person who commits sin or sin against us, let the agni behave badly towards that sinner. O knowledgeable agni! Who obstructs our work by sin or guilt, destroy the same sinner. 
O deserters! We admire your divine, generated and inclusive power by greeting the desire for happiness. We can get a heroic child from him and consume the best money every day. 
Along with holding the earth and space like the sun, fire has also held the sky through meaningful mantras. O Agni, the swami of all food! Protect the favorite places of animals and go to such a place which is unfit for the communication of cows. 
O medicine! Suparna i.e. Garuda or Sun received you. The pig dug you with its nose. O medicine related to the act! Destroy the one who uses the act and tries to kill us. (1)
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn me may be three and thirty,33, but make my speech sweet, for you are sweet. (3)
O serpents named Nyarbudi and Arbudi! You take the life and soul of our enemies. When you cut off our enemies, sad tones should be uttered by those who see them. (11)
O Saraswati! Destroy the deities and the elusive vrittar asuras everywhere. O lord of food! You give to men the earth that has been snatched away by the asuras and pour water for them. 
Provide water. Kill the monsters. Establish this woman in virtue. Dhata has given her husband. The learned Bhagas are in front of this. (59)
O man without life! I have received your souls from the air. I have received your eye from the sun and I hold your mind in you. In this way, you should speak with all the organs and speak with the tongue. (3)
The gods appointed two months of the rainy season in the west direction as its protector and appointed Vairupa and Vairaja as its ritualists. (7)
The agnis which are visible, illuminated by virtue of their importance, located in a blazing heaven and bright, the bodyguards of the same agni, the gods, reciting the praises, gave a havya. 
Praises and Soma symptoms are provided for these Indra. For this reason, Indra, the swami of more wealth, became unique in terms of stotra etc. Indra also protected the sage named Etash, who was more radiant than the Sun, on the occasion of protecting Sauvasa. (15)
Hey Mon! Ritwij serves you. You may, while wishing for food for us and making our yajna beneficial. 
O Kumar! The grains like wheat etc. used in your food should be pleasant. The earth higher has been saved for you than the lower part of the earth. In the higher part of the earth, aditi's son, both the sun and the moon protect you. (15)
O daughter of heaven, Usha! Just like the old ones for us also you remove the darkness. O wealth- Mistress Usho! Give me wealth with sons and grandsons who serve and praise like Bhardwaj. Give us more food than we have been absorbed by many. 
O bride! Be the Queen towards the father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law. 
You are born from the earth's land and water. May all gods praise you from all sides. Be happy with the taste of ghee and sit here. You give us money along with generations. Both the deities, Both Ashwinikumar, establish you here. (4)
Jupiter is holy and has diverse vehicles. They are everyone's researchers. They speak good and delightful voices. They are moving, enjoying heaven, domicile and visible. They give the best food to their stoetas. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You both drink somras. After this, you comfort us with your famous defense. 
O man! You get growth right here. You have become knowledgeable here. You work here and give us money. You became very strong here and were not defeated by the enemies. You should attain growth by being the one who holds food and has a long life. (38)
We praise the Indra who created all these creatures and all the things after which they are born. We will befriend the same Indra and will come before the desire-filled Indra through praises and greetings. 
Draw our chariot ten white horses given by the son of Purukuts, the lord of gold and the apostle Trasadsyu, the son of purukuts born in the girakshit tribe. We will soon do the work of adding horses to the chariot. 
Understand both learning and avidya together. Death is overcome by avidya. Amrit Tattva is found from vidya. (14)
Complete the gastrointestinal agni with Indra Dev Havi. Make the yajna delicious with sweet ghee. Devgans are bondless. They are illuminated by their power. They are gods of vegetation. (45)
O Ashwinikumaro! Your chariot, with more intense and beautiful horses than the mind, which leads to the people and from which you go to the houses of those who perform beautiful yajna, O leaders! You come to us by the same chariot. 
The second adult life of this vratya is Aditya. (4)
O my servants! Serve Varun, who lives in three places, quickly. Just as the wheel is located in the navel, all the poems are located in Varuna. Just as we take the cow to the goshala, so our enemies add horses to the chariot. Varuna kills all the enemies. 
O bright Mon! Give us a son who gives us enough food, who is loved by many, who sustains in many ways, and who defeats the elders. 
The praises that are appearing are intractable with the mantras sung, the sadhvis and the mantras that are not sung. These praises provide food and are capable of protecting. Just as the chariot moves according to the intention of the charioteer, so these eulogies go to please Indra. (1)
Oh, God! I praise your forerunner Agni Dev for the sake of wealth. Your greatest blessings are the same field bearers as the dear friend of many. 
She brought Someras with all the human beings with vasha gau feet. (13)
The yogis, who know this secret, gain merit far beyond the fruits of Vedic rituals, the study of the Vedas, performance of sacrifices, austerities, and charities. Such yogis reach the Supreme Abode.
Sanskrit and Deeptishali Som go and are mixed in water with fingers. 
Wise men know the way of language through yajna. He has come to know the voice that entered the minds of the sages. Having acquired that language, he spread it to many countries. The seven verses are collected in this language. 
Heaven, earth and the creatures located in them are dependent in the remaining rice after doing uchishta i.e. hom. Water, ocean, moon and air are located in this uchishta. (2)
Soma is pure and does not suppress himself by anyone, but he himself suppresses the enemies. 
O Indra! Pleased with the som that you destroyed the darkness of the darkness, you installed the sun and usha in your respective places and cut the mountain into pieces which hid the cows stolen by the pangs and was steadfast with its power. 
You are the form of water, virility, importance and strength. We worship you. O visible! Hello to you. O Shobhan! You see me. May you equip us with food, fame, glory and brahmavarchas. (5)
O Sun God! You shine in heaven, in space, on earth and in water. You pervade the east and west seas with your glory. (30)
O agni! You complete the yajna beautifully. Just as the animal that eats green grass etc. looks beautiful to its rearer, in the same way you become visible to the host who strengthens himself with ghee etc. (22)
Pururva said, "After your arrival in my palace, the nymphs like Sujurni, Shreni, Suman, Api, Hridechanshu, Gandni, Charanyu, etc., did not come with words like cows going to the seminar." 
O Vishwedev! You give us wealth, food and a house as a means of decayless and great sacrifice, along with many sons who complete many subjects with chariots. Through this, we should defeat the enemies who do not worship and support those who do devyagya. 
 O agni! You are going to know everything. We prepare the stotra form with the best intelligence like a chariot. O agni! We are your friends. We should not have any kind of trouble. 
To do the violence of whom the Asuras surrounded the sompanads, who suppressed shambar with their thunderbolt and those who have drunk the sanskar somaras are Indra. (12)
All the eleven divine gods that lie between the earth and the sky are glorious. Only those eleven gods were pleased to successfully complete this yajna. (19)
O friend and Varun! Your eyes rise, expanding the appearance and aesthetic brightness. The sun that sees all the realms knows the praises of men very well. 
These somas become the instruments of force of the gods, the vegetative and the bhaakshya and give sweetness to the Indradi devas. 
Let this chariot made of vegetation not leave us or destroy us. We may have welfare until we reach home, until our chariot runs and until we separate the horses from the chariot. 
O the conqueror Indra! We are your devotees. You bring us money from someone skilled. You want us to make people rich. 
O Maruto! We call upon the adorned, bright, praiseworthy chariot of yours, in which the desert mother of adornment and good fortune is victorious. 
Shobhan Yajna Marudgana are especially bright due to the ordnance. They themselves keep achyuta and make the strong mountains, etc., fickle with their power. O deserters! When you add deer with bundlings to your chariot, you are able to move and rain like the mind. 
O Mon! Come to the same path as Aditi friends and her twelve sons do charity with grace, doing our welfare. (1)
Vani Devi says- I travel with rudras, vasus, adityas and all the gods. I wear friends, Varuna, Indra, Agni and Ashwinikumaras. 
He is the one Rudraputra Marut present in his old places, praised by hymns with special knowledge. 
May we be benevolent with a dominant, milky, superior body mind. God of God! Keep money for us. You give us money. Please make us painless. (16)
O pure and called agni! We call you like sage Bhrigu, Sage Angira and King Manu. 
O agni! Friends Dev and Varun Dev are your eyes. You are amazing power. You fully illuminate heaven, earth and space world. The sun is the root and the soul of the conscious. They have risen in this form. (46)
O medicine, make the roots of my hair firm and the upper part of them long. In addition to this, you make the middle part of my hair firm. O man! Grow the hair around your head like new grass. (3)
O Dhanaswami Indra! In all these battles, make it easy for us to get great wealth. Let us make the psalms rich for the glory of water, son, grandson, and give them the power of destruction. 
O earth! Both righteous and papatma walk on the paths of walking of human beings and the walk of chariots etc. Make us happy through the path which is inferior to thieves and enemies. (47)
The mind is very restless, turbulent, strong and obstinate, O Krishna. It appears to me that it is more difficult to control than the wind.
O Gandharva with qualities like charity! You become our protector from our opponents in the south direction from our place of residence. Our desire is your arrow, let it protect us. You call us yours. Let us greet you and keep sacrificing. (2)
Just as bulls graze in the grassland, so you come to the sacrificing people. Like a quick horse driving the chariot, you come to the stota to give money. You be as successful as the messenger. Just as buffaloes don't leave the pond, so do you also not leave The Sompan. 
Hey leaders! Your fathers are pleased with your hymns. I am driving the wheel of the chariot to go to my ashram. Don't let you be weak. O vasishthaputras! You have gained the strength of Indra through the trichas called Shakrawi and by the best word. 
Your sister and other women have been roaming around your house crying and crying. May Savita and Agni free you from that sin. (61)
The agni, through its flame, holds the yagnakarma and graciously accepts praises to protect the earth. Dynamic human beings possess the glorious, purifying, praiseworthy, home-grown and very sacrificial agni. 
Oh my god! This agni is the light that brings you to the hereafter. The wind that does not stop is the second and the agni is the third light. You meet the agni and enter the agni, so that you attain the body of God. After this, you will be the favorite character of gods like Indra etc. (7)
O father! Hello to you. O father! Get swadha for you. (85)
 O hosts! There is a joyful someras in front of you. Dogs with long tongues want to go near this. You drive those dogs away. 
Devgans and human beings survive with the help of Vasha Gau. As far as the sunlight is there, it is vasha gau. (34)
Whether this sick man has become weak or has left this world and gone near Yamaraj, the god of death, that is, even if his healing is impossible , I also bring this kind of man back from death and make him powerful to live for a hundred years. (2)
Indra, who gave the desired happiness, had forced the asuras named Vetsu, Dashoni, Tuluji, Tugrah and Ibha to go near the Dinotan king in such a way that the son is forced to go to the mother. 
Indrani is the waist of the cow. Air is tail and poovant is hair. (8)
O Maruto! This group of praises of the worthy mandarya poet is for you. This praise comes to you from the desire that the body of praise be strengthened. Let us also gain food, strength and long-life through this praise. 
Greenish and dieless somas are automatically covered around with white milky cloth when they are mashed. Som had installed the Sun on top of The Dulok for sinashi purification and installed aditya's brightness on the dyava-prithvivi so that all could be purified. 
Fire is the deva of food, cow, God, omniscient and soon going to be illuminated. May they be pleased to shower wealth on earth for us. (35)
 Soma is the forerunner, the king, meets in the water and receives praise. They are beautiful and green, measuring 
A yogi is superior to the  tapasvī  (ascetic), superior to the  jñānī  (a person of learning), and even superior to the  karmī  (ritualistic performer). Therefore, O Arjun, strive to be a yogi.
O man! You receive the light of the knowledge of men and come before us. We have taken you away from death to live for a hundred samvats. We have rescued you from the fever, headache, etc. of death. We highly establish you at a long age of a hundred years, freeing you from condemnation. (2)
O Jupiter! With your protection, people become violence-free, wealthy and blessed sons. Among those who receive your grace, those who are rich, who donate horse, cow, or cloth, have wealth. 
Quickly they become virtuous, and attain lasting peace. O son of Kunti, declare it boldly that no devotee of mine is ever lost.
O Savita Dev! Drive away our evils and bring all the welfares to us. 
O agni! The one who finds you with friendship becomes the best heroic and the best karmavan. By protecting you 
 O hosts! Agni is a storehouse of immense power. He is the grower and the best. You all get close to the agni. 
O Indra! At the time when your younger brother Vishnu measured the three lokas with his three steps with his own strength, your beautiful horses carried you. 
I invoke Som, Savita and all Aditi sons with salutationary mantras to the host to attain the highest position. Increase your radiance, the basic agni god of all. May I have eternal superiority with my friendly brothers and sisters (3)
Hey Mon! In the third loka of heaven in which the rays of the sun conform to their will and where the people of light live, make me immortal by bringing it to that loka and drop your juice for Indra. 
O fire! The deserts who are fierce and so powerful that no one can despise them. They have rained water. You come with them. 
 Som is holy. They want to go to the yajna place to fulfill the wishes of the hosts. They want chariots to go to the yagna place while making these sounds. 
The birds who wear atishya yajnapatra, illuminated weapons and wear gold necklaces on the chest wear more food. They are carried by easily controllable and fast moving horses. The chariots of the Maruts run behind the water. 
He became extraordinary and huge. He became the best Brahman. It was hot and true. Through that this world appeared. (3)
We use shobhan praises for the great Indra, because in the house of the caretaker host, indra is praised. Just as thieves take away the property of the sleeping people, Indra immediately takes possession of the wealth of the asuras. There is no undue praise about those who give money. 
The letters of the mantras are as wide as the sky. All of these gods are installed. He who does not know this thing, what benefit will he take by knowing the mantra? The one who knows this is happy. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Vartika invoked both of you at the time you saved her from the mouth of the kidney. You went to the tops of the mountain with jahush by your jaisheel chariot and you killed the son of the demon Poison with poison. 
O Aj! You are heaven. It is through you that the Sages of Angiravanshi have known heaven. I have also gained the knowledge of that virtuous world through you. (16)
O the conqueror Indra! You are the protector of one or two hymns. You protect people like us. 
O Satyarup Aschinikumaro! Just as the meritorious people called you to drink somers, so I call for my protection. Ashwinikumar kills all the enemies. 
When Indra pierced the cloud through the power generated by sompan, he increased space with rainwater.
We measure the measurement of this crematorium by removing the defects, so that we do not receive the second dead deed in the middle before a hundred. (40)
The agni that is well-lit, with a warm molar, a warm-hearted and sheltering host, rises without a bit of agni. 
 O hosts! You worship Indra. They are very famous. They are called by many people in the yajna. He is worshiped by many people. 
The big waves, intoxicating and ferocious Soma goes to Dashapavit with the desire to get the gods, destroying the demons. 
One who performs havan without the permission of such a learned fasting person does not know the Pitrayana path nor does he know the Devayana path. (8)
We would have been agni in the House. Agni scholars are brilliant, divine and divine. He is the one who nurtures thousands, the fasting, the most pure and the holy tongue. (36)
O Indra! Let our enemy go everywhere, destructive, glorious, destruction-free, chariots full of bulls and horses. Along with that chariot, protect us as well. 
O Desertion! Give us the wealth of a stable, powerful and hostile son. Give wealth in the form of a powerful and hostile son who receives wealth from our yajna karma. Those who receive money from our yajna karma, the deserts should come to protect us with such hundred and six-armed sons-like wealth. 
Let us exploit and expand yajna. May he remove everyone's sorrow. This yajna spread in eight ways (throughout the universe). May this yajna extend to heaven. May this yajna give us the best children. May this yajna give us wealth. May this yajna nourish us. May this yajna give us strength. This sacrifice is offered for this yajna. (62)
O Indra, who wants to come near us! Wherever our hymn is, protect it for the yajna. Know the hymn from your knowledge for the accomplishment desired. 
Indra alone had distinguished you from flowing around at will. By being honored by Indra, you have considered yourself great. That's why you're called Udak. (4)
O ghost! Come close to the land of a mother of wide scope, happiness. May this earth, which provides you with many south-related dakshinas related to yajna, providing you with a blanket made of wool and happy and protecting you in the paths for the east direction. (49)
That's it, Mon! When you reach the dashapavitra like the Sun God, you speak the words with inspiration. 
A cow named Vasha composed this burnt finger. This odan i.e. rice is very good. Eat this odan i.e. rice. (13)
I call the same maruts to drink somras. Who have elaborated all the earthly objects and bright heavenly things. 
Banaspati Dev is related to the giver of peace, the performer of hundreds of yajnas, the intellectuals and the ones who unite Indra. They are supposed to make the path easier. Yajna is filled with sweet hawks. May they please accept the sweet vegetative havi. Please perform yajna for those plant gods. (10)
O very young agni! Human groups sacrifice you from near and far away. You accept the praise of the most praiseworthy. O agni! The happiness you give is great and beneficial. 
O Indra! We ask you for the same force with which you protected Dashgva, Ahrigu and the trembling Golden chariot and strengthened the ocean. (8)
May all The Aryans please protect (this yajna site). May the housekeeper please protect Agni (this yagna site). May Yashasvi Indra Dev protect (this yagna site). May the glorious friend Dev and Varun Dev please protect (this yagna site). Please protect Bratadhari Pusha Dev (this yagna site). May all the gods please protect (this yajna site). Please protect Swargalo (this yajna site). Earth is going to bless Goddess Vishva. Please protect (this yajna site). The happy Aditi Mata is going to do good. Please protect (this yajna site). (9)
 O agni! You are full of all knowledge. You bring Havi to heaven. We praise you. 
The deeds of indra's bravery are unlimited, whose wealth cannot find enemies, and whose wealth encompasses all the hymns as the light spreads in the sky. 
The ancient dyadhyas, angira, priyamedha, kanva, atri and manu know my birth. He and Manu know our fathers. They have been related to the mahis for a long time and have a relationship with my life. Because of their importance, I greet them with a voice of praise. 
The man who ties the gem made of tilak tree is the one who defeats others like a tiger and a lion. He is free to roam like a bull in cows and destroys the enemy. (12)
O God of Indra! You have come from a distant country and given us money to increase our friendship. You increase our wealth like the rain from space and wish to give us welfare. 
O Indra! Come to us from wherever you are far or near. O Vajradhari Indra! You come to our yagna to drink someras even from your excellent paradise. (7)
O ashwinikumaro of true nature and divine qualities! You have filled the world and made everyone disease-free. The sages of Vatsagotriya do not receive you through praises, you come to those who possess the havis. 
I separate tuberculosis from the tax and compassion that destroys sin and ill-will. I also drive away death. (2)
Serves wide furious. (6)
Wealth with the best quality is this rajoguna wealth. Brahman is superior to satogun yukt. O Swami Of God! You are the knower of this subject, so I request you not to speak bad words in front of Me and that the slaves should bow down. (6)
Agni is the first venerable, holder, hota and yajistha (yagya worthy). They have been installed on the Yagya Bedi for yajna. Sages like Bhrigu repeatedly ignited the extraordinary agni in the forests for the welfare of the hosts. (26)
When Indra increases the dyava-prithvivi like the sun by rain, the flags on Indra's chariot and his thunderbolt give us many good. 
Yaju mantras get yaju and planets get the planet. From the stotras, the desired praises, verses get the utmost and the weapon. With saam mantras, weapons are attained, sama and avbhuth. (28)
Hey, Lord! Everyone knows your deeds by heart. O sons of leaders and sudhanva! Bum knows with your knowledge the deeds by which you desire the part of the yagna to get the speed of defeating the enemy. 
We have heaven, which is made better by the light of the world sun, we should get it. (3)
Hundreds of enemies could not commit violence by attacking with weapons etc. and killing their lives. Indra completed his eyes, life and strength in the midst of a precious gem not being harmed by enemies. May the unarmed gem protect you. (3)
O God of fire! Add the moving horses named Rohit to your chariot and bring the gods here through them. 
May this Vishwa Devi please make us pure. May this Vishve Devi be pleased to give us divinity. (44)
I praise the best, the most young man, the eternal, the able to walk, called by all, the joyful of the human being and the agni that knows all beings, for the purpose of the god group in the ushadaal. 
O jataved agni! I perform the havan of holy Havi for you with heart and mind. O God! You know all knowledge. O jataved agni! You have seven faces. For those faces, I do a havan of ghee. You accept my desire. (10)
Vishwa Dev should go hitting from above with his force. The sons of Angira should go destroying the central part of the army. (13)
Those who are the leaders among the gods, about whom it has been said that they reveal the luminous Brahman, that Supreme Man is known to the Brahman. All the gods live in the control of that Supreme Man. (21)
O spectacular Ashwinikumaro! Bring all the protective means by your gold chariot and drink the sweet somras. 
Soma, who supports heaven and the possessor of the earth, has all the people in his hands. Som praises. May the sweet juicy and the nishchas for Indra be full of ashes for you. 
Jupiter saw the cows hidden in the mountain in the same way, just as when the water decreases, humans see the fish living in it. Just as chamas is taken out of the tree, Jupiter Dev killed the asura who hid the cows and took the cows out. (8)
O agni! The sacrifice made by the Atharva form God in you to please the gods created by Him before creation and you made that sacrifice worthy of reaching the gods, O Agni! I put that sacrifice in your mouth before all the hosts. Get this Havi Devas of Agni, who are praised in three forms as the messenger form, the deity form and the basis of the Havi projection. (1)
O Brahmin! You are brahmavarshavi. Maharathi Kshatriyas should be born in the nation, skilled in brave archery. People should get horses with sharp bags, bulls carrying loads, milch cows. Women should be character and virtuous. May the heroes be victorious. All young. Be a good speaker. The clouds rain well. Medicines should be fruitful. Yoga should also be maintained. (22)
Bind it all! Praise the sun, the swami of the sky, through mantras. He is the main swami of the sun creatures and is a constant walker. May those ancient suns serve this new man. Many good deeds follow the path of that only sun. (1)
This dhenu of a Brahmin is seated. It becomes like a dhenu krita, covered with sin-covered poison. (1)
O nourisher and true-natured Aschinikumaro! You have become the subject of praises of sage Agastya born out of Aquarius and gave food to the meritorious Bharadwaja sage and by getting the increase from the mantras, you broke the thigh of Vishpala. 
 O Indra! You are a brave soldier. You destroy the prosperity 
O introducers! Wash the wound with water from the cow urine foam. Wash the area around the wound with the same water. The foam of cow urine is a highly effective medicine. Make us happy to survive through this. (2)
O agni! When you move here by being filled with vegetation vibrated by the wind and permeating the vegetation, your flames caused by wood burning move their own fast as chariots. 
O you are pure, Mon! You have created the sun by your force in the water-holding space. You are the ones who sing to the hymns, full of knowledge and are swift. 
O dead person! Let the agni of your organ which has been cut by the cove or cut by the ant, snake or any other animal, make it all disease-free. May the Som who enters the body of the Brahmins also make you healthy. 
O Indra! We are goswami's friends like you. We meet with you to get enough food. 
The host who praises The Ashwarupdhari Dadhrira Dev when Usha spreads and the yagnaagni is ignited, The Dadhidra Deva, along with Aditi, a friend and Varuna, makes her sinless. 
Those who live in the service-doer Ritviz patra, the master of praises and the non-violent monstrosity, move forward with the fingers of both hands. 
O Supreme Indra in Vrithrahanan! You plough both your horses in the chariot. O rich and mighty Indra! You come before us from a distant place with spectacular maruts to drink the somras. 
 O Mon! You are in heaven, earth and everywhere. Please give us all kinds of welfare. 
Those with admirable speed, the masters, those who hear the call from far away, the protectors of hosts and the friends who increase the yagna and Varuna roam around for the welfare of all the hymns. 
The knower Mudgal tied the wheel of the chariot and installed the bull in the yoke of this chariot. Indra saved the bull, the husband of the cows. The bulls walked the fast route. 
The agni, which walks ahead of the gods and is admired by the human beings, reached this yagna with the help of horses of various colours. May our greetings and salutations be taken close to the gods through the path of agni yajna, which is praiseworthy and the chief of the gods. 
We measure this crematorium because Brahma has given us a hundred years of age. Therefore, we should not get the crematorium in the middle through our karma. (38)
 O Mon! You are skilled and illuminated. Many people want you. We want to achieve your strength and power. 
O Indra! You have many of your friends among the human beings. The stota calls you more of the same. Don't keep yourself separate from us forever. 
The angar form enters the cosmic agni and transmits the agni in the deity form. May the sons of sages like Atharva, Angira etc. save us from the sin we received in the form of accusations. I do havan for you with food with namaskar. Let us not falsify the part of the gods. (9)
O the word and som located in Dronakalash! You are added to the milk and curd of cows and go to dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. You are qualified to serve like a horse. You spill into Indra's stomach. 
If the gods are there, please be pleased to take strength and life for us who live with Vaidya Indra Dev. May jagati verses, senses, cow pulling the carriage of mind be kind to us to hold strength and age. (18)
These green mons produce the temporal constellations, planets, etc., and the sun in space. After this, they cover the earth with water flowing below. 
O act! The one who commits the act has placed you in the army, on the arrow or on the dudumbhi. We return you to him who sent you. (7)
Oh, God! It would have been a bharadwagotrian, that is, give me a divine building. I want your kind vision. The host sits with other bright-verses and worships the group of gods with the desire for wealth. 
The priests praise the rich fire in various yagnas with the desire for wealth. They are carrying the stone of somalta in their hands. 
Friends i.e. Sun, Varuna, Vishnu, Prajapati, Indra, Jupiter and Aryama are going to give us peace. (6)
The deserters carry all the water for the host like a friend. Deserters face the pathiks like quick donating, white-dotted, without fault-free wealth, and walking straight horses. 
O Maruto! Indra is your friend because of the inspiration of water showering. The Maruts had pleased Indra. Vrithrahanta Indra drink the soma squeezed with them in his house of hosts. 
 O Mon! You are green and holy. You sit on the seat of Kush in the best vagina 
This stotao! Greet and get the proximity of The Mon and mix curd in it and present it to Indra. 
The earth covers itself with many real-movable forms and becomes advanced and licks the sun that covers the three realms. I serve Aditya knowing his place. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O brother! Those who have come to the agni are your mother, father and life-giver. That's what your body is. Be located in this. 
O God! By the boats made of gold that walk in the middle of the sea, you walk as messengers of the sun. You are subdued by the stoetas by offering animals while you desire food. 
O man suffering from tuberculosis! I take tuberculosis out of your eyes, nose, ears and chin. I take tuberculosis out of your head, from the brain and from the tongue. (1)
I invite Dadhikra, Agni, Ushadevi, Jupiter, Savita Dev, Ashwinikumar, Mitra, Varuna, Bhaga, Vasuon, Rudras and Adityas to this yagna. 
O agni! The bright rays of the Sun God that expand heaven, today human beings should expand with those rays. (22)
 O Indra! You are praiseworthy. You drink this somersa of our shade. You are watered by the stream of Som. We get purified food 
O body! Just as women carry water in pitchers, so may the twenty-one peacocks and the seven rivers remove your poison. 
O Vasa Gau! When you become favorable and go near Indra, then the bull calls you from close by. Because of this, Indra gets angry and milks your sweet milk. (10)
O Shobhan wale mon! Give us food and the children of the son. We ask you for friendship and help. 
I am the basis of the formless Brahman, the immortal and imperishable, of eternal dharma, and of unending divine bliss.
 O agni! You are the navel of yajna, the storehouse of wealth, the glory, the operator of yajna and the flag of yajna. You are born from Arani Manthan. We call upon you. 
While rising and setting, the sun, through its spreading rays, destroys the germs that are located within the cow's body. (1)
O Vasishtha! You sing hymns for saraswati, the most powerful in the rivers, and worship saraswati located in dyava-prithivi through doshaless hymns. 
This is the hymn that sage Gautama spoke while sitting on chariots with golden wheels, with a sharp iron circle, running around and seeing the enemy-destroying deserts. 
Yajna and Somras increase Indra. The havyas, hymns, mantras and puja vidhis increase Indra. Usha, day and night movements increase Indra. The month, samvatsar and day increase Indra. 
I get strength from the food I eat. With that force, I hold the thunderbolt. O thunderbolt! Just as Indra cut off the body parts of the demon, you cut off the body of my enemy. (1)
O Indra! Even though you are the ordinary god of many hosts, we still call you. 
O son of strength, agni! Don't make us hostilely worthy of poverty, cowardice, animallessness and slander. End the feeling of malice towards us. 
Savita Dev! You have gold hands and you are omniscient and worthy of wearing in the mind. We call on you to protect us. (10)
We are good-minded with money. Let us surround the Gandharvas while staying here. Let them accept our greetings. We receive their grace. That God has attained that supreme best place, where we also reach while making our age long. (36)
In the means of death secretly committed against us by enemy men, Indra, Agni, Dhata, Savita, Brihaspati, Soma, Varuna, Ashwinikumar, Yama and Pusha should protect our armored king. (1)
O you see! You brought out the sage, who was lying like a man sleeping on the earth, as bright as the sun's image falling in the well, and as a magnificent golden ornament. 
This woman comes close to you wishing for your charity etc. to follow dharma. In this way, you should make this woman who follows you with children in the next life. (1)
Salutations to the juice form of the ancestors. Salutations to the dry form of the ancestors. Salutations to the life form of the ancestors. Salutations to the food form of the ancestors. Salutations to the nutritive form of the ancestors. Salutations to the enthusiasm of the ancestors. Salutations to the anger form of the ancestors. Salutations to the human form of the ancestors. We dedicate houses, clothes etc. to the ancestors. Please also please wear home, clothes etc. for us. (32)
O Indra! Strengthened by the Somras, which made you gain age and mind sharp, you sit on the seat made of the host's skills. (2)
The host donates. Would describe him. The adhwaryu goes everywhere for the same purpose while committing violence against the animals of the form. Brahma atones for all his karmas. O Indra! You have done all these deeds before, so you are praiseworthy. 
Hey Mon! In the people in which there is joy, infatuation and happiness and where all the desires are fulfilled, make me deathless and drop your juice down for Indra. 
Hey Mon! You hear me praising Jamdagni and give me the food containing cows and admired everywhere. 
Just as the bride goes near her husband after getting the permission of her father-in-law, in the same way, the demons who cause pain roam in the earth with the permission of the sun, they should be attacked with yellow and white mustard in their heart. (24)
Viraj, who carries the load from behind, is for verses. Semen sinchaks are for brihati verses. Strong kakups are for verses. Car pulling hairs are for milking hairy overstatement for line verses. (13)
O agni! You are skilled and pious in doing your job. You give us complete supremacy. You make us the best semen. You save money for us. You give us nourishment. O Mon! You take it in the kalash for agni. We assume you for supremacy. This is your native place. You are the dominant god among the churches. Make us equally acceptable to humans again and again. (38)
May Jupiter protect us from violent sinners from the west direction, from the top and from the bottom. May Indra Dev come from the front and the central part and protect us from the violent. In this way, while protecting us from all sides, Sakha Form Indra should give us wealth. (11)
O demons! You run from this place. Whether you already live here or have started living new, you should leave here, because this place has been provided by Yama for this ghost to live with day, night and water. (55)
O Indra! Your horses are young, excellent, lustful, spelly and worthy of being added to the chariot. Come before us with them, riding on them. 
I always praise Indra like this- O Indra! You are a great enemy and wonderful. Your friend never dies or loses. 
Like indra's thunderbolt, the best of those who have sweet juices and sow seeds, som speaks the word in dronakalash. Fruit-tapping, water-pouring and word-making somkirans are like ramming cows. 
O Indra Dev! You are amazing. Please come to the yagna of your sons. We have made Someras holy for you by squeezing it with our fingers. (87)
May god, which is composed of the mantras sung by the Angiragotrian sages, come to us for the protection of the gods. May Indra give us happiness with wealth, Marudgana with prana etc. with the winds and Aditi adityas. 
 O Mon! You are shining. You come to the container for filtering. Your blissful juices reach Indra. You get air in the form of stream. 
The stars named Saptarshi, which are located in the high sky, appear at night, but where do they go by day? Varun can't interfere with Dev's actions. It is by the command of Varuna that the moon is illuminated at night. 
In the south direction of the altar, the revered pitar also invokes Saraswati. O father! Be happy to be seated in this yajna. Please Saraswati and be satisfied by getting the hives. O Saraswati! You have been called by fathers. You establish in us such food which is ragaless and our desire. (42)
O Indra! Your stota speaks to the eagles by doing favorable deeds according to each season. Pure, sanctifying and amazing you become the subject of praise. 
May the water with divine qualities benefit us from all sides. May water rain welfare around us and be available for drinking. (1)
O agni! A guest served by all and happy-minded guests came to the houses of all the hosts and learned my devotion to you. O agni! You give up the enemy armies that attacked me and bring me the food of my princes. (9)
Squeezed somers is the soul of the yagna. He drips loudly, fulfilling the wishes of the hosts and protects his revolutionary form, famous since ancient times. 
Everyone knows the truth-ridden Usha because of the divine brightness. The wealthy Usha fills the earth and sky with her various forms. O agni! You get beautiful wealth by coming in front of you and asking for a lighty Usha. 
 The complete man is three legs. He lives in a high place. The whole world is born from this perfect man. The conscious and the unconscious are all the extensions of this perfect man. It has diverse formats. It is everywhere. 
The stota thus says that Indra loves his stota very much. Before the stotas can know their cows stolen by the merchants, they find the cows and bring them. 
O Indra, who has fallen the mountains and is visible! May our friendship with you last forever. You struck the asura, the force that used arms against the sages of the praise-giving English sages, and destroyed all its cities and their gates. 
Som, who carries the burden of yajna, is deadless and gives utmost happiness to the gods, sees the seven rivers. The mon satisfies the rivers by completing it as a well. 
Everyone asks the fire. Don't ask anyone other than them. When asked, Dhir Agni says the same thing that is in his mind, does not give a favorable answer to the question. These fires do not tolerate the words before and after their speech. Because of this, the blind person takes the help of fire. 
Marudgana protected the power and yajna karma of trit while fighting. He protected Indra at the time of Vritrahnan. 
 O agni! You are like a philosopher, a divine, a visionary and a king. Please listen to our praise made by speech. 
The bird that kills its own children for the sea has been determined. The manduk has been determined for the cloud. Fish for water, Kulipaya for Mitra Dev and Nakra for Varun Dev have been determined. (21)
O brave Indra! When Som goes to Nichud, come and drink somras to give us money and strength. We know you rich and tell you our desires. You be our protector. 
O Indra! Parashar and Vasishta sages, who destroyed many demons, went to their homes wishing you and praised you. They did not forget the friendship of their lord. Their days are always awestruck. 
This is aunitidevi! Give us the eye again. In order to indulge in us establish life. We look at the rising sun for a long time. Hey permission! Protect us to get avinash. 
They hold semen like a bull for many of the skin-borne drugs. The soul of the immovable and movable is located in the perzanya itself. May the rained water protect me to survive for a hundred years. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O Indra! Defeat our enemies who boast of wealth, war, heroes and strength. 
Indra, like a mother, had brightened the earth and sky by the sun for the welfare of the Angiragotrian sages and cut the mountains into pieces after listening to the praises of the Angiras. Indra had freed the cows by listening to the praises of Shobhan meditation. 
O Indra and Varun! You are the best, the giver of wealth in the yagna and the most powerful of the knights. You are the greatest of the donors, the most powerful, the one who commits the violence of enemies by the truth, and the master of all armies. 
I praise Agni, the bright, the one who performs the yagna and the lord of happiness and wealth, through praises. 
Like strengthening your body, the nourishment of the body of agni and the appearance of agni willing to burn wood also look very beautiful. Just as a horse ploughed in the chariot moves the tail repeatedly to fly flies, the agnis turn their tongues like flames. 
In the mouth of the same Indra, whom the meritorious and the psalm-carrying man loves well, I will put a havan like a curse. 
Oh, God! You are of excellent intelligence and strength. You take our opponents to the secret place. O gods of enemies! May you also defeat our enemies and make them happy today and tomorrow. 
I salute those who know Surya, Devgan, friends and Varuna and all beings. (46)
The gods said to the agni, "O agni! The cover was huge and thick, with which you entered the waters wrapped. O Jativeda Agni! One God has seen your various kinds of bodies." 
May the life that holds the body allow us to have a long life. We call the prana vayu to remain in our body forever. Earth and space have taken a sharp eclipse only to give us. O Mon! Jupiter and Agni or Sun take a sharp eclipse to give us. (2)
O god of glory and glory! Indra are big in you. You sit in my yajna. I praise you again and again. 
O Savita Dev! May ours be happy today. May our tomorrow be pleasant. May our day be pleasant. We stay in a happy house. Our intellect is pleasant. May we always be able to enjoy happiness. (6)
 O hosts! Just as tvashta 
O the best, the auspicious, the brightest and the seeker agni! Just as you are pleased with those who increase your speed, so come to this yagna, being pleased with our hymns. 
Young Indra, whose friends are, even if they are not warriors, are surrounded by enemies and bow down heroically with their power. 
Hota performed yajna for agni. Swaha for agni. Swaha for hymns. Separate swaha for the item. Swaha for Ashwini kumaras. Swaha for chhag. Swaha for Goddess Saraswati. Swaha for Aries. Indra dev is as powerful as Singh. Swaha for Indra Dev. Swaha for Rishabh. Savita Dev is a protector, for them, swaha. Vaidya Varuna is powerful, swaha for them. Love the plant. Dear to Dev Vaidya. Honey, ghee and milk are available for devgans. May God please accept them. Please perform yajna for everyone. (40)
Oh, humans! Go ahead and be victorious. Indra grant you welfare. Just as you are inferior, so are your arms of power. 
O Indra! Mix with cow's milk, mashed and drink Naveen Som. This mon we donate to your joy. Drink this soma with the maruts and rudras praising them till satiety. 
O Gautam, the desire of Shobhan Dhan! Praise the agni with pure words. 
O Aghnya! Destroy your kidnapper. (6)
O woman! I flog you with my face. I call you from there to Me, so that you may fulfill my resolve and walk according to my wisdom. (5)
Indra is firmly holding the vajra in his hands. The thunderbolt is fast. Just as water is made effective with the help of mantras, so the thunderbolt is intensified to run on the enemy. O Indra! Just as a carpenter cuts down the trees of the forest with an axe, so you snatch away our enemies by gaining wisdom with your speed, body, strength and power. 
 O agni! You are powerful and omniscient. Listen to our testimonials, be satisfied with our service. You are extraordinary and innumerable formless. Please accept the wish given by the hosts. 
O Maruto! You are all born together like the arrows of the ratha chakra and are equal as the days. The sons of the earth are excellent and born of glory. The fast-moving deserts are raining water well with their own inspiration. 
Indra, who performed many of the heroic deeds, won over his enemies by supporting the Angiragotrian sages who were sitting with praise and cynicism. Indra, who destroyed the cities and the wise, destroyed the cities of demons because of the friendship of the friendly Angiras. 
O Indra! You are descriptive, illuminated by your brightness, real forceful and extremely noble. We have used this word of praise only for you. May we conquer this war with all the heroes and dwell with the learned ritvijs in the beautiful house you have given us. 
 The host utters three vows. Hearing those words, the green sommers flows, making a sound like a milch cow's rambhane. 
O fire! Those who run the deserts that run the furious clouds and wave the waters of the ocean, come with them. 
We had rained the water that irrigated and held the sky in place of the water. It was because of the water that we became the masters of the aditi-son i.e. yajna. We divided the prevailing sky into three parts. 
O Indra, who destroys the enemies and gives them abodes! We have heard your praise. Bum give us lots of ear jewelry. 
O God of Agni! You are going to destroy angry vampires, so give me the power to destroy vampires too. This havan is well done. (5)
O shining agni! You are shining and a little devoid. We publish you. Your highly admirable radiance is being illuminated in space. O agni! Provide food for those who praise you. (88)
 O agni! You are light, admirable, enemyless and patient. Seeing you is as beneficial as seeing the sun. 
O Vajradhari, the destroyer of enemies, adorned with horses and the year of desired substances, Indra! We worship your havi. (1)
Oh, God! All your names are worthy of greeting, worthy of salutation and worthy of yajna. The gods who were born of Aditi, water and earth, listen to Our call here. 
O dream! You are born of acceptable vampires and are about to receive Yama. I know your origin. (1)
O thunderbolt Indra! Come quickly before me in front of me to drink som with the help of horses called You Hari. 
Because of the force, the most famous sages are our Gods. The sages who give us food and money are due to niwas, so they give us boons. Oh, God! Let us defeat the enemies without somabhishava in a favorable day because of your defense. 
O patient man! May the air holding birds be pleasant for you between the earth and the sky. May the best directions like east, west etc. be pleasant for you. Similarly, I rescue you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god caused by disease, from the anger of the captives, from the sin generated, from the treason of guru, dev etc. and from the sins of Varun Dev. I make you sin-free with my mantra. May both the world and the earth be benefactors to you. (3)
The Psalms sent the praises with services to Indra. After that, he saw the rain coming from the sky. 
Shobhan-Som wants to defeat those who do not perform yajna and bandits. They desire to suppress bonding and evil-minded monsters. We admire both these wishes of Mon. 
O Yaayu! The thing you say about drinking someras while praising it, goes to many hosts. 
The Stotas go to the refuge of Indra in order to get protection and wealth in the battles, because they give victory light in the war. They became our protectors with the help of Indra Maruts. 
O agni in the forests, playing with the ashes made of its flames! You come before us by being known by the inductive wind. Let your hostile flames come near us and become gentle. 
Just as the honey collectors drop honey on me, so Ashwinikumar should install tej in me. (16)
"Just as the caged lion claws around, Gayatri, dressed in the form of a hawk, rubs her nails in paradise." Indra was thirsty like a buffalo with tied legs. Gayatri brought them to Somlata. 
O Lord Maruto! When you take your chariot over the mountain, you are drunk because of the squeezed somers. 
Bright and bondage-free stars should rise. May those stars free us from tuberculosis, leprosy etc. diseases in the body of sons, grandsons etc. and the noose of them which are in the lower and upper parts of our body. (1)
 O Indra! You are strong. You go to fulfill the wishes of worshippers in the same way as a bull goes in a herd of cows. You are God. You can't be our opponent. 
He eats in the called worlds. He is called in the world form in the world. (11)
Swaha for the constellations. Swaha for deities belonging to constellations. For the day and night. Swaha for half-month. Swaha for mass. Swaha for the season. Swaha for those born from the season. Swaha for the year. Swaha for heaven. Love for the earth. Swaha for the moon. Swaha to the sun. Swaha for rays. Swaha for the Basus. Swaha for Rudras. Swaha for adityas. Swaha for the maruts. Swaha to all gods. Swaha for branches. Swaha for the banaspatis. Swaha for flowers. Swaha for fruits. Swaha for medicines. (28)
The highly-growing, the desireful, the vanjadhari, the somras drink the best and the virtuous indra speaks heavily near the zhulok. 
O those who do the above! Indra, who knows everything, meets you in this yajna. May this sacrifice be beautiful for them. (3)
The unsettled juice of intoxicating somalatha is said to purify and sanctify others. He is the one who satisfies the gods and is the asura. 
Quick, engaged in fulfilling his desire, fierce like a bull, the enemy's enemies, the annoyed humans, the call to the enemies in war, the one who did not blink, the one who completed the task without any helper, and the heroic Indra had conquered a hundred armies of enemies together. (2)
Oh my god! You are the emperor of the west direction. Aditya is your god. Varun is your boss. You are a retentionist. Saptadash is the emperor of the storm direction. Marut is the emperor of the ukth direction. Vairupa is the emperor of sama direction. May he distinguish you for the weakness in space. The first born sage in the order of creation should place you in Devlok. In this way, all the devas like Vasu etc. should take the priests to the heavenly paradise. (12)
Especially just as the foster son sits on the mother's lap, so the devas sit on the high position of the kush-laid altar. O agni! May Juhu water the flame worthy of your yajna well. You do not help our enemies in the war. 
For the ghost that has been cremated with the charu mixed with ground wheat and cow's ghee, we please the deity who is present here, the deity who is present here, from the gods like Indra, the creator of heaven. (18)
O glorious, spectacular, great, lord of the universe, the light-lit in all times and the agni that travels through the way of vasus! The host who desires wealth follows you. 
The earth-sky, which is in unity with each other, is isolated and the earth-sky without destruction is consciously located in a still space, as if two young sisters were. They both get the name of the couple together. 
O God of Agni! You defeat enemies because you are powerful. You bring down our enemies who do evil deeds. O host! This school made by the artisan should be endowed with the son, grandson etc. who bring you gifts. (6)
Just as people pray for a mountain full of tubers, roots, fruits, etc. when there is a famine, in the same way we pray for the wealth of beautiful gifts, nourishing, radiant, praiseworthy and rich in cows etc. (2)
O king! Hail your shobhan jai from here, from there and from all sides. This sacrifice should be good for the victory of these friends. Your enemies are defeated and friends are victorious. I wrap these enemies with blue and red strings. This sacrifice should be beneficial for friends and harmful for the saints. (24)
The Lord of the hindu has been worshiped since twenty-one hymns and autumn. Vairaj verses enhance the shri of Shriya (Lakshmi). We establish a havi for Indra Dev from him. May Lord Indra bless us with strength and strength. (26)
 O agni! You are the one who purifies and prospers the richness. You give us the money that increases fame. You provide us with a udder coming from the right path. You give us money that many people want. 
What is called upasterana is Kush. (8)
O gem! Protect me, my children and my wealth. The enemy should not encroach on us, that is, do not defeat us. Vampires who want to kill us should not do our violence. (4)
In the house of the sun which cannot be hidden, the sages live happily for twelve days, receiving hospitality as guests. When they fill the sunken fields with crops by rain and make the rivers flowing, at that time, the waterless place is filled with herbs and the lower ground is filled with water. 
Indra, the lord of wealth, also bows down to the anvilashi chariot on which he sits. Just as the gwala moves a group of animals, so indra drives away the enemies. Aparajit and Devshreshtha Indra walk in wanting the wealth of enemies. 
O fever! The disease that weakens the power is your brother and the cough is your sister. Sin is your nephew. With all this you go to the evil man. (12)
Fire is sometimes hidden and sometimes spread out in wood. The fires that know the meaning of the host take refuge in the flames that know the wishes of the host. Such flames increase again and again to attain divine fire and along with the fire, they make the form of the earth and the sky bright. 
O Indra with the sun! We prepare sattu for you found curd. O Indra named Hari and with green horses! For you we fry barley. You come with the maruts and eat the purodash. O vrithrashakta, brave and learned Indra! You drink mon. 
O agni! We hosts offer ghee to you. You be satisfied with that. You strengthen us with money. Provide happiness for us. You enrich us with many subjects (sons and grandsons). (50)
O daughter of the bright sun, Rupi Usho! We are praying to you as the giver of yajna that we should become masters of glory and food among all the people. May heaven and the glorious earth bear that glory of ours. 
First of all, let the gods whom Manu worships through praises by lighting the agne with seven hotas with a reverential mind, may the gods whom he worships us without fear, give us welfare and make all the paths easier for our well-being. 
O glorious agni! When you burn, you leave out many straws and empty the land with crops. Let us not anger your wide flame. 
 Som generated light in the sun. Indra established oz in. They are the womb form of water and the greatest. Som has done a lot of work. 
Oh my friend and Varun! There is no praise worthy of any praise in both of you. We, the sages of Atri Gotratropan, go to your refuge. 
O Indra! You heard the praises of Aswabudhana again and again and gave the Venputra Prithu into his control. 
O nastyo! Whether you live in a distant land, even if it is very near, sit on your shobhan chariot at sunrise and come close to us with the sun rays. 
I seeker, with the help of a gem made by the Tilak tree, have conquered all the demons called Putna in the same way as the learned sage Atharva won. I destroy the rowdy demons with a gem made of tilak tree. (8)
 The streams of someras squeezed are going to give happiness to Indra. This someras that he gives to Indra attains a higher speed. He overcomes all sins. 
O agni! You are the holder and creator of all. (36)
I see your form, adorned with a crown, and armed with the club and disc, shining everywhere as the abode of splendor. It is hard to look upon you in the blazing fire of your effulgence, which is radiating like the sun in all directions.
O men! Please please by greeting Edavatsar, Parivatsar and Samvatsar again and again. We should be in the grace and intellect of the gods who are the presiding deities of Idavatsar etc. worthy of yajna and get the fruits of their grace. (3)
O Somrupa the protector of the food Indra! May the Somras, which you drink and become the supreme force and destroy the enemies together with your protectors, the same Somaras may give you happiness when they are deserted. 
For one and a half years gayatri, for two and a half years of trishtup, for three years anushtup, for three and a half years of thermal verse. (12)
The Assembly, Committee, which knows this, attains the harmony of the armies. (3)
 Just as horses graze grass, agni 
O Indra! Drink the somp squeezed by stones and giving the desired fruit. The somabhilashi, a bird called Shaen, has brought you mon. When you are drunk with this mon, you drop the enemy humans and penetrate the clouds. 
Prajapati saw the water that holds the prajapati and produces the yajna with his importance. Those who were the only gods among all the gods, let us serve the same Prajapati through the word. 
Do not do your violence. I distinguish you from the cover with fainting symptoms. I save you from the loop of death. I take out the flesh-eating agni away from you and wear the agni of yajna as a parakote for your life. (9)
O Indra! With the chanting of mantras of the Ritvijas, your horses are added to the chariot. Those horses are able to take you to the place where you want to go. Your horses bring you to our yagna and you listen to our hymns. (8)
Those who made the words from the thought of protection and stabilized the dyava-prithvivi and considered the radiant both of them to be glorified, on the basis of which the rising sun is illuminated, let us worship the same Prajapati by havan. 
The earth on which men dance and sing, on which there is crying and the sun rings, that earth should make me peaceless. (41)
 The host recites the stotras like Ushna Rishi. They tell accounts related to the gods. They are bratis. Someras is enlightening and pious. The best somers makes a sound and filters in the urn. 
Indra said to those who praised - Stand up and roam among human beings. You become the one who works by my grace. May your enemy leave his all to you. (11)
O Indra! Your hosts increase everyone's consumable. O lord of all the worlds! You know the wealth of those who do not give the money. Give us their money. 
O agni! You should remain with the hosts in the same way as the father remains with the son. Please always be with the hosts for the welfare of us hosts. (24)
Be neither afraid nor bewildered on seeing this terrible form of mine. Be free from fear and with a cheerful heart, behold me once again in my personal form.
O Ashwinikumar! Listen to the praises of the blind sage Rizash while walking. O shobhan palko! He too had eyes with the same praise as me. 
O self-light agni! Those who have been burned by the fathers and those who have not been burned are all pleased with the greetings given with the word Swadha in the middle of heaven. You, together with those fathers, make their dev body according to their will. 
Even before offering sacrifice in the yajna, the earth on which the wooden pillars are thickened, that earth itself attains growth and makes us prosperous. (13)
The eldest king Indra goes across all the armies while traveling through his chariot. I praise them. (16)
Oh patient! I flush out tuberculosis from your intestines, anus, large intestine, heart, kidneys, liver and other organs. 
Varun had told me that the earth bears twenty-one names. The scholarly and brilliant Varuna has also told me the secret things of Brahmaloka while preaching to the antewasi. 
Just as the cow goes to the fastening calf, so so the praises come to me. I've been to sompan several times. 
This divine sacrifice should be for the air form prana, for the space related to the air, for the birds and for the deity, the overswami of the air. (2)
Human beings accept Indra, especially among the great gods, for the desire for wealth or for protection. 
O sacrificial energy! You are going to cover Aditi Dev's (Mekhala). You are the sastra (prestige indicator) of Indrani's head. You are nutritious. Please put your power in beneficial works like yajna. (3)
O Indra! This praise of you is being given because you have done heroic deeds. You protect the wheel of the chariot. 
This hymn! Just as the arrow protects man, so the speech protects you. May you attain cow and wealth-rich intellect. (6)
I, who know these mantras, strike the thunderbolt to break the head of this enemy, which is going to destroy around the waters. May that thunderbolt cut off all the limbs of this enemy. All gods should know this deed of mine favorably, that is, consider it appropriate. (50)
I am famous on earth as the one who despises the enemy. I should go in front of my enemies and suppress them. I should control the enemy living in every direction. (54)
O son of God, Angira Rishis! This nabhanedishta speaks the welfare words of your yajnagriha. You listen to him. You may receive Shobhan-Brahmtej. O Angirao! You accept my son of Manu at this time. I will do your yajna well. 
For sharva, for the region and for Mahadev, the swami of all of them, I greet with heart, with glory, with ghee and ajyas. All of them deserve salutations. Please be happy and take these sin-filled acts away from us. (2)
O serpent! Indra first killed those who gave birth to you. Which snake had poison left at the time of destruction of those serpents? (18)
Hota performed yagna for Bharati Devi, Vani Devi and Saraswati Devi. He performed yagna for Indra Dev and Ashwinikumars. He performed yajna with mantras to wear all three qualities. Saraswati Devi is jyotirmaya form. He called for the force for Indra Dev. In the yajna, honey, ghee and milk are obtained for Indra Dev. Please accept them. Please the host to perform yajna for the welfare of all. (37)
Be alert when invoking the earth and Saraswati, the radiance of the agni god who satisfies all beings with water. These three goddesses who do beautiful deeds should sit on Kush. (8)
 O agni! The samas composed in Gayatri, Trishtup and Jagati verses are sung for you in many forms 
Just as the cow reaches the cowshed, similarly we take animal and grain offerings and go near the igniting fire. They spread flames here and there like falling water. The rays of visible fire get mixed in the sky. 
These other fathers are here. The ancestors who are here. May the other father suit you. (86)
O most powerful Indra! Accept the new psalms we have made for you. We, the wise, the doers of adornment and the desire for wealth, have offered these hymns to you like chariots and clothes. 
O soul- You protect my life and make it not to be destroyed in famine. O soul-like anjan! Make your soul happy. O nirriti roop anjan! Get us out of the trap of nirtiti. (4)
Flames have arisen first of all. They have originated even before creatures. In this divine sacrifice of the earth, we make you head-to-head. We establish you at the top of the yajna for the yajna. (4)
 O agni! You are the best and the holder of the whole world. Atharva 
The Somaras does not owe the devata debt to the Brahmins who squeeze and drink. Without more wealth one cannot drink somras. 
I invoke the Sun in the form of Indra, who is the one who suppresses others, conquers that glory of enemies, conquers the conqueror of heaven, conquers enemies' cows, etc. and conquers waters through morning, evening and midday deeds. By their grace, I shall be beloved of animals like cows, buffaloes, etc., (4)
First of all, I wear the agni created by the Arani Manthan. I give agni the agni with kshatriya radiance, strength and power. (2)
When the host goes from one mountain to another to find somalatha and starts many karmas like somayag form , Indra knows its purpose and prepares to come to the yagnasthan with the host of yagna to rain as per the wishes of the host. 
O plant-like yup! You stand high in the yajnamandapa, the best place on earth. You are measured by beautiful magnitude. You give me food to the yagyakar. 
 O Indra! You are great and strong. Just as we go to a virtuous man for welfare, our speechless prayers reach you. 
O meeting one another, the eternal youth, the same-ranged, like a sister and a brother, located in the dock of mother and father, smelling the navel-like waters of beings, the earth and the sky! Save us from sin. 
A person got a little value of more money. He said to the buyer, "I didn't sell this item. Just give me another price." The buyer didn't raise the price and said, "I've seen a lot. Whatever person is able or unable, the price that is fixed at the time of sale is stored on it." 
O Indra! You should consume the som given in the morning yajna with roasted barley, yukta with sattus from curd, including purodas and recitation of uqtha mantras. 
This is Indra who dances to all! The human-benevolent work you did in ancient times became famous in heaven, you took away the life of the Vritra Asura with your own strength and poured the water stopped by him. Indra blindly destroyed the asura who pervaded the whole world with his own force. They get the Shatrattu Indra Anna and Havya. 
O Indra! You're enough to drink them when our somras go to Nikud. O godly and mighty Indra! Somers are enough for you. 
Destroy these enemies, crush them and be happy. This gem goes ahead of you. With the help of this gem made from the varan tree, the devas had removed the witchcraft done by the asuras on the second day itself. (2)
May indra, omniscient, omniscient, obedient to others, protect our eldest and middle son. Indra protect us from front and back. 
Mantras of Samaveda and Rigveda are invoked for Indra who performs sompan. Indra desires mantras related to Sompan. 
O Indra! Even if there are a hundred or so many lands, you cannot be measured. O thunderbolt Indra! A hundred suns cannot illuminate you, nor can the eight earths make your limits. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! The food you give to men is more than a hundred riches, more than a hundred, or more than a thousand. Our praises are revealed to you with countless qualities. O purandar! You destroy your enemies. 
O Indra! Drink soma with the fiery tongue of the maruts that you desire to worship somapan, together with the same maruts that you grow and help you in the war. 
O Indra and Varuna! Give us money that is worth everyone's choice and give us a place of residence full of food. Varuna, the son of Shur and Aditi, who destroys the untruth, is the one who gives unlimited money to the stothas. 
The cows know their inhabitants agni. Just as calves meet their mothers, so do they sing with the agni with the other cows with them. 
We did not get food in wars. Even at the time of ripening of the crops, we did not get food as per the requirement. For this reason, we ask for horses, cows and food while wishing our friend Indra. (3)
 O sun! You are going to cross everyone. You can see the whole world. You can publish all. You shine the moon, planets, constellations, etc. 
The way the cow sits in the cowshed, the way the birds go to their nests and the way the mountains are located in their place, I install wolves in the same way in my enemy's house. (1)
The meritorious people put their mind to the yagna deeds by the command of the wise, the great and the admirable Savita Dev. Knowing savita's work, they put them in their respective tasks. The praise of Savita Dev is great. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! You are both well praised by Hota. You should get properly heated and ghee located in a huge vessel. Perform a ritvij yagya called Adhwaryu for you. After this, both of you drink milk containing the sweet juice of the cow that expands the yajna through milk, ghee etc. (5)
 O water! Just as a mother nurtures the child with milk 
 O Mon! Please be mixed with water for Indra, Vayu, Varuna, Marudganas, Vishnu. 
The head of the agni is hidden in a secret place and their sun-moon-like eyes are located in different places. Fire wood is not chewed with teeth but only eaten with the tongue. Among the people, Aadhvarayu, etc., come to this agni on foot and raise their hands and greet them. 
O tasteable, milky, squeezing and wordy mon! You find sweet juices. O Soma, drenched in water and pure! You go for Indra, broadening your stream. 
O air! You hear our glorious praises and come to the yagna that touches our heaven. Located among the sacred objects like ghee, vedamantra, kush etc. this bright mon is sure for you. 
