O happy, evil-doer and praise-worthy ashchinikumaro! Come before the sages who raised you up by praises. 
O Mon being squeezed and caught by our fingers! Enter your place while you do the word. You enter the vessel of air with the yajnakarma. 
When this swan, which destroys sin, goes to heaven, both its wings are spread for a thousand days. He sits all the gods on his chest and looks at the whole world. (18)
O man injured by the blow of the weapon! With the power of mantra and medicine, your injured limb has become healthy. You get up from the cot and run as fast as the chariot with good wheels and strong axles. (6)
O barley! Those who do things related to you should be without destruction. May your heaps be without destruction. Let the people who take you to the house be without destruction. May those who eat you also be without destruction. (3)
O rich and blessed Indra, served by many hosts! By getting your shelter we are present in the work of yajna. We are your own devotees. O you of praise Indra! No one receives these praises except you. Just as the earth wants all its beings, so too do you love our words of praise. 
O son of strength, the agni called by the abras and the light of the friendly light! May I become as dead as you by your worship of the dead religion. 
O aschinikumaro! The form that you gave by bringing your praise and havan-giver, the old Chyawan sage, from near death, is famous. 
May Indra, who pleases all human beings by means of money, etc., come to us, the workman, the lord of all people and praised by many. O Indra! On hearing our praise, come forward to protect us by joining the two karyappan horses in the chariot, wishing for a good food. 
Those who rain water from the sky, the desired fruit givers, the masters of the food and the friendly friends of the giver, and Varuna sits on the great chariot to come to the yagna. 
O water! What has entered you is your terrible part. (8)
O Indra! This somerasa has been filtered for you only. These praises call upon you. You all know. Come to our yajna and drink someras. (2)
O house of stone! You are mine. The sinner who wants to eliminate me from the upward direction, let him perish. (6)
The gods made Bhava, i.e. Mahadev, who was wearing a bow to protect him from the corner of the east direction, to perform his rituals. (1)
O agni! Your flames are combustible. They should have the power to remove the juice. You burn the body of this deceased completely. After the burning of the body, take this man to the world heaven of those who do virtue. (71)
O Dhanaswami Indra! We make the praises stunning. O rich and friend Indra! Get to know us your friend. These are the warrs and the true power of Indra! Get us money only in a place without the possibility of money. 
Hey Ritvijo! When the somras lay, praise the stones that carry the yajna, taken with ten fingers, displayed by ten fingers, bound by ten fingers, with the reins of ten fingers, as horses with the reins of ten fingers, unshaken and tied to ten ropes. 
Devgans give up sleep in the morning and please the agni in the yagya due to water. Great, salutations were given and the agni of truth always know the sacrifices of the hosts. 
The hymns which are written in the intellects by themselves go to Indra and are mixed with the stream of the Kanvagotriya sage Soma. 
O agni! The great line and the kakup verses and the letters ushniha have entered you. The shatakar has also entered you. The sun also enters you with its brightness. (15)
If a man or woman has inspired you to commit sin, that is, to bite me, then just as the horse returns backwards by indicating reins, we return you to those who inspire you. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! How did the sage named Vimana praise you, that you decided in your heart to give him money? In the same way, I call you the sage of The World. Don't miss our friendship. Come here and separate the reins of your horses. 
Just as the beautiful girl reaches the groom in the swayamvar, where someras is squeezed, yagna is performed, streams of ghee go there. (97)
In a respectful manner, the adhikaras moisten the honey in the giant vessel at the time of immersion of the adjacent and guarding agni. 
The path of the sun to go beyond the night to Udayachal remains beautiful. The brightness of the sun illuminating the sky is visible. 
O vegetable made yup! In the yajna, while wishing for the gods, Adhwaryu etc. soaks you with dev-related ghee. Whether you stand high or dwell in the lap of mother earth, give us wealth. 
We worship Indra, the swami of wealth, the God of Vasus, admired by the Rig Veda, by means. (15)
O soulless man! Don't go the way of the dead. That route is terrible. I tell you about the way people do not go before death. Do not enter this darkness of death, because there is fear when you enter the city of Yamraj. You will get protection in coming towards us. (10)
I hate the morning self and the rich who do not protect others. Both of them are quickly destroyed. 
Just as mothers raise children with all-round beneficial juice, in the same way, please make all of us consume the most beneficial juice (for nutrition). (15)
May agni, the lord of Havi, give pleasure to the host and he will look at the rising sun for a long time, which says that I will lay down someras for the leader, the benefactor of human beings and the best of human beings, Indra. 
Savita Dev, Barun Dev and Bhaga Dev took strength in indra dev's senses. Indra Dev protected Havipati well. (70)
A form of sun emerges through days and nights. The second form of them is transitive. We call for the sun moving in the path of heaven and space. (43)
Cows, goats and sheep should be called to our homes. Apart from this, a substantial portion of food should also be sought in our homes. (5)
O Ashwini Kumaro! Goddess Saraswati! You are young. You take medicinal juice from namuchi rakshasa and make Indra Dev drink it in various ways. Protect them in every way. (76)
O giver, furious, strange, very wise, glorious, truthful, defeating enemies and lord of all, Indra! You defeating the enemy, give us tolerant, enjoyable and lasting wealth in the battle. 
O Fire, son of motion and power everywhere! You are all worthy of choice and insulting your enemies. With which psalm should I praise you? 
The gifts, which Savita Dev had sent to Surya, has gone ahead. Cows are sent in Magha Nakshatra and marriage takes place in Falguni Nakshatra. (13)
O Indra and Vrisakapi! You come to my house with your mouth upstairs. Where is the antelope that eats many juicy substances and pleases humans? Indra is the best. 
But charity given with reluctance, with the hope of a return or in expectation of a reward, is said to be in the mode of passion.
I am looking for the one who performs yajna karma and drinking the refined someras. Indra is the best. (19)
We are going to serve Indra. When Sangram is present, we call Indra to get money. (3)
Fire with inductive flames give wealth. They give sons to sages with thousands of cows, deliver the given gifts of hosts to Dulok and take many forms on earth. 
O Indra! Always praying for fellowship with the maruts, come for our wealth and make this mon a success. Due to his great commo, the famous Indra Soma has been increased by the incremental human beings on every occasion of squeezing. 
Let the agni that go near the gods and get all the possessions of men, let the agni come to us with the grains. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come, sit down with us and drink somers. O aspiring and wealth-winning Aschinikumaro! Tap the water, don't kill us and go. 
 O agni! You are as bright as the sun. The hosts make the yagyavedi. You ignite those yajnavedis. You are like a fast horse. They are as dynamic as air. You are visionary and adorned in many forms. 
Most learned scholars, having huge bodies in the form of fire, are already worthy of yajna, worship the gods and perform yagya through mantras. Like the navel of the earth, in the central part of the altar, according to the season, they mingle in the agni like Garhapatya etc. 
The great agni ignites in the morning and lives as a flame and comes out of the darkness and goes to the yagnasthala through its brightness. The agnis that have adorned the flames and the agni generated for the yajna complete all the yagnagrahas by its darkening radiant brightness. 
When I wear ashwattha mani made from the very powerful tree Peepal and with the support generated from the essence of Gayatri, destroy my enemies whom I hate and who hate me. (1)
O sons of kanvas! Ask the Ashwinikumaras that the sun rays arise from the sky and the origin of the rain, the reason for our development from the same sky, the light of the dawn is also revealed. O Ashwinikumaro! Where do you want to establish your form of these two places? 
The deity wants the host to squeeze the Somras. No one wants a sleeping person. Dev gets intoxicated soma by being drowsy. 
O Indra! In the evening, you take the sun, immersed in the west and unknown by the gods, to the east the next day. 
O diseased man! Let the yellowness of your body, which causes anger to your heart, go towards the sun, caused by heart disease and diseases like libido. O patient! As someone who is identified with the red color of the cow, I make you healthy. (1)
It was pure Mon! From the two crooked leaves that you have, you become the king of the whole world. 
O seeable Indra! People praise you through mantras and salutations. The wise people who desire eternal deeds and wealth like Agnihotra etc. get you after great efforts. O Balavan Indra! Just as the husbands receive the husband, so the praises of the wise come to you. 
The Atharva rishis tied this gem and their children Atharvans also tied this gem. With the help of them, the Atharva rishis and their children, the Angira tribe, who became powerful, destroyed the cities of the robbers. O host! With the help of this gem, you kill your enemies. (20)
Hota laid the seat of Kush for Dev Vaidya Ashwinikumars and Saraswati Devi. Indra Dev is a doctor for a calf cow and a baby mare. For them, honey, ghee and milk etc. are obtained in this yagya. They accept this. Please the host to perform yajna for the welfare of all. (33)
The one who penetrates the mountain, the first born, the truthful, the son of Angira, the bhagi of the yagna, who is dynamic in both the realms, living in a very bright place and our lord Jupiter, roars in the earth and the sky. 
That Brahmachari created the water of the Brahmin jati i.e. rivers like Ganga, heaven etc., Prajapati, who created the subjects and Parmeshti, who created the world after Prajapati. That brahmachari becomes the womb in the nature of Brahman's power, raja, tamoguna without death and gives birth to everyone. He became Indra with the strength of penance and destroyed the asuras opposed to the gods. (7)
O agni! We are the ones who take care of you. Give us money. Those who were attracted to you before us and were our disobedient should not make you independent. O agni! May your nature be stable with force, may this host of your host receive his wishes and not be defeated by anyone. (3)
O agni! The rays that protected you and had compassion protected Mamata's blind son, Lambatama, from the curse. O agni who knows everything! You protect those best-working rays. Even the enemies who wished to destroy him could not finish it. 
Like Noo Dyava-Prithvivi, Indra knows all the Som yajnas and annoys everyone. He illuminated the sky wide by the sun. Indra, the most possessor, has held the sky as a pillar. 
Who installed the tongue touching many places in the chin? Who established speech in the tongue. Which god is present in the creatures holding water within his body? Who knows him? (7)
O Maruto! I am describing your oldest importance so that you should come to the yajna vedi soon and perform the yajna. O those who make great noises and are able to do all the work at the time of departure! As soon as you come to the place of your yajna, the flame of the samidahas becomes great in the same way that you show your might in the wilderness. 
You are in ukha's mekhala. You should be assumed in the middle space. Devmata please make the basic height of agni from the soil of the earth. Please give it to the sons to cook it made of mituti. (59)
O man of the body! Praise the king who is wandering, brilliant, master and possessed of the qualities that are possessed by the afflicted. The king is the replica of the earth and is engaged in war. (7)
O Indra who inspired the worshiper! You protect the somras squeezing. You make us having a lot of money. 
O agni! Accept this sacrifice of ours. Make us successful in front of Indra and the Desert, sit on the kushas at night and in the morning and worship the desired friend and Varuna in this yajna. 
Usha, who is serving, with nityataruni and praise, on being called, comes to the yagnashala with the gods from heaven, engages the human beings in the work of yajna and makes the earth conscious in such a way that a mother gives the realization to the girl child. 
The medicine which has been known in ancient times by mantras, sages like Agastya, Vasishtha etc. and gods like Indra, I remove the poison in your body with those past, present and future medicines. (2)
Drink Som in a pond called the enemy destroyer Indra Sharyanavat and become confident and great powerful. Hey Mon! You drip juice to Indra. 
You are sung, published, discussed and astrological. By your grace, we have been able to understand all the worlds, vaishnavas and forces. (39)
Our army moved forward, wearing weapons capable of killing enemies like Shiva's bow Pinaka, tearing the enemies with weapons like Khadga etc. If the enemy army gathers to face him, then the mind of the enemy soldiers will not be able to think and decide anything. In such a situation, our peace nation should be devoid of kosh etc. (2)
O adhwaryu! Wake up the Ashchinikumaras related to the yagna called Prathasavana. They come to this yagna to sompan. 
Go to him a happy and grained hymn of a friend and Varuna who is repeatedly born. 
If these Indras listen to our praises, then they do not delay in giving food containing cow. (2)
That's the division after that. (2)
We call Indra, the man of wealth and opulence and the pleasant, in this struggle. In the war from which food is obtained, we call on Indra to protect ourselves. We call upon Indra, the destroyer of enemies and the conqueror of wealth. (11)
Hey Ritvijo! Make the anointed mon pure by spreading your sacred and mix the intoxicating soma with godouth. 
The sons of Srinjaya and the descendants of Veethavya grew greatly. They killed the Bhriguvanshi Brahmins, so they were defeated and could not find heaven. (1)
O Maruto! Rain for us from the sky and bring down the streams of broad cloud. O perspiration! Come before us with this thundering cloud while raining water. Parjandev is also our guardian while raining water. 
O hidden Maruto! You come to the same as blue swans, beautifying your limbs with ornaments. Just as all men are happy in My yajna, so also the deserts should come and sit. 
O Indra! When you and the Ushana poet went to the house of sage Kutsa by horsemen who defeated all of them and walked quickly, you sat on a chariot with all the gods and dogs, doing violence to the enemies. You killed the shushna asura. 
The scholar can easily know that there is a contradiction between truth and untruth, in them, Soma follows the truth and the simple thing and destroys the untruth. 
 Agni is the form of wealth, scholarly, restrained and connects everyone for the people. You complete the whole world with energy. We call upon you. 
This cow of a Brahmin follows the one who harms the Brahmin and destroys his life. (16)
It has come to us after getting life from Indra, taking the permission of Varuna and getting strength from the Maruts. O earth! This present man in your lap should never be hungry or disturbed by thirst. (4)
Let both the black lips of this enemy fall apart and read the fall in this way, just as the vulture flying in the sky falls down. May the death god named Uchochchan and Prashochana grieve the heart of this enemy in more form. (1)
The agni god, who knows all the things that are great and knowable, created admirable and beautiful water. The form of a pervasive and sleeping agni is also glistening. Fire protects that water without being impervious. 
 O agni! Whatever happiness is available in heaven, please get those pleasures to us. You are cold and extraordinary. You give us brahmagyan and children. 
The crops and herbs grown by prana i.e. sun god with rain water begin to communicate with the sun - "O Prana means sun god! You enhance our lives and make us smell beautiful." (6)
O agni! O Indra Dev! O Varun Dev, O Friend God! O Desertion! O Vishnu! You give us happiness and strength. May the gods like Ashwinikumar, Rudragan, Pusha, Bhaga, Saraswati etc. also be pleased to come to our yagya. (48)
May the sun shine come soon in our yajna. Idadevi comes here like a human being by knowing this yajna. Meet Goddess Saraswati with these two and the three goddesses sit in this happy yagna. 
O mother, the best saraswati among the rivers and the goddesses! Let us make the wealthy rich. 
O Indra! You killed Pipru and the progressive mrigya asura. You imprisoned The Son of Vidith, Rijishva, and killed fifty thousand black demons. Just as old age destroys beauty, so you have shattered the cities of the demon Shambar. 
I praise Varuna by Shobhan-stuti and pitras by stotras. I praise Varun with the accolades produced by Nabhak Rishi. Varuna rises near rivers. He has seven sisters, among whom he is in the middle. They kill all the enemies. 
May Pushadeva, who makes the goat a vehicle, protect us in every journey and make us a part of the women who are earnest. 
O karma! I start you with the command of Savita Dev, the motivator of all, with the arms of Ashchinikumars and with the hands of Pusha Dev. (2)
O calling Indra! People call you for body protection and sun protection in war. You deserve to be the commander of all men. You must subdue our enemies through your own grace. 
Whenever kushas are cut for the yajna with shobhan fruit, the maker of the psalm sits on the occasion of the light-bearing yajna and speaks the hymns in the light yajna. At the time when the stone used to crush the soma speaks like a hymn of praise, Indra is pleased. 
O Indra! The namuchi monster used to desire your wealth, so you killed him. You made the deadly asura Namuchi mayaless in front of Manu. You have secured the way for Manu to walk. Those paths easily go to Devaloka. 
There are seven kinds of armaments of the seven maruts. They have seven fillers and they hold seven types of lamps. 
O Indra of many shortcomings! I choose the powers that are in the deity, pitar etc. (5)
O daughter of heaven Usha! You spread the light. Don't delay in coming to our yajnakarma. Just as the king grieves his enemy and his thief, so let the sun not heat you. O Shobhan born Usha! People praise you for getting the horse. 
O God! Leave all of you and come to this yagna of mine. In this, there is a home of ajya etc. O Gods, enhanced by eulogies! You increase this host. O God! Pleased to hear our praises, by your grace, live in our house with animals and other property like cow, horse etc. (2)
 We want to hold the brilliance that is there in gold, cow and truth. 
This Somras has expanded the earth and persevered the perseverance of heaven. It is he who has held the juice in the three best bases of medicine, water and go. That's what holds the wide sky. 
May the air be favorable to us. They should have medicinal properties for us. May they kindly let the air flow pleasantly for us. May mother earth, heaven bless us and the stones that are so soft. Please listen to our prayers and make us happy according to our prayers. (17)
Those who ask the swami of Vasha Gau not to donate it become the target of fool Indra's Armament Vajra. (52)
The indradi, who call upon the gods, are brought from all sides in our yajna like the quick asa and the agni worthy of the yajna among the gods. 
O daughter of heaven Usha! Give us good fortune every day and remove the darkness, illuminating with the light that pleases you all. 
Surrounded by light, a god named Ven drops the water produced by the sun rays in the sky to the earth. At the time of the union of water with the sun, the stotas worship Ven by their hymns in such a way that the parents please the children with the songs. 
There are seven rashmis pervading the yajna-sustaining agni. They sit in the eighth place of the yagna like the guardian agni of the gods, the guardian of men, the ritvijs. 
May the Vedas that I have studied or heard the Vedas when the sky is cloudy, in the shade of trees, in the shade of trees, in crops, near rural and wild animals, it should also be fruitful for me. (1)
I always present these words of praise to the beautiful Adityas, friends, Aryama, Bhaga, Varuna, Daksha and Ansh who have originated in many countries, listen to my word. 
O agni! To purify the grains especially for me. Oh, God! We give you food to the people. Let us host and stota both be eligible for your donation. You always follow us by welfares. 
They are seen at night like thieves. They don't see anyone, but they see the whole world. Everyone should beware of them. 
 O agni! Listen to our prayers with all the agnis and increase the glory of the prayers. We request all those who are in the form of agni, those who are in human beings. 
O Indra! Let the people follow you in the same way as the car goes behind the wheel everywhere. O Indra! You are really great and famous. 
I inspire the host to perform the yajna of agni, worthy of praise, without deeds, the lord of heaven and earth, the son of heaven and power, and the ketu of yajna agni in the yagnas of all the people. 
The eight hundred and ten men from whom the earth trembled, they attained the impossible defeat by violence against the brahmin's children. (11)
Darshaniya Usha wakes up the sleepers and walks in front of the sun, simplifying the paths. The giant charioteer, the great and the world-wide man spreads the light even before Usha Diwas. 
O agni! The previous sages have come close to you while speaking praises. O agni called by many! At this time all hosts go to you in the yajna. King Shantanu gave me thousands of properties in the form of dakshina in the yagna. O Rohit, the agni with the horse! You come here. 
When the matrishva i.e. the wind lit the havya-bearer agni in the cavity for the Bhriguvanshi sages, the great agni among the great and the brightest had made the heaven firm by its brightness. 
O Sobhan Karma Wale Mon! Be careful to give us food. You are the best of farm givers. When you are intoxicated with Soma, protect us from enemy man and sin, for you are great. 
He who knows this, he becomes the beloved abode of the agnis named Ahuvani, Garhapatya and South. (15)
Just as friends, Aryama and Varuna are our protectors, so may our path of sacrifice be easier. 
Hey Mon! Your juice flowing towards the water grows to intoxicate Indra. The gods drink your happy juice to become deathless. 
O Maruto, who bears the sacrifice! Listen to the call of the yajnakar host or the sacrificial hymn. 
O Agni, you were born in the ocean as Wadvagni and your position as sun has been in the sky. Your glory is seen between the ocean and the earth. O agni! We serve you through Havi. (3)
The beautiful fal i.e. the iron parts of the plough plough us plough the land while giving us happiness. Farmers should follow the bulls while giving us happiness. O sun and wind! Satisfied with the havi given by us, keep the plants of barley, wheat, etc. with ornamental earrings for this host. (5)
Having attained me, the great souls are no more subject to rebirth in this world, which is transient and full of misery, because they have attained the highest perfection.
In the houses of the Kshatriya who takes the cow of the Brahmin, the shrigals soon turn their eyes. (3)
Just as the swans flying in the sky make a row and come to us by making a yupe row covered with bright cloth and with pieces of wood. The bright and radiant, which are erected in the east direction of the agni by the meritorious adhwaryu etc., acquire space. 
Just as the yajnashala is built, indra has made it by measuring the eastward pravasav. They have opened the outlets of the rivers with their thunderbolt. Indra has flown the rivers on routes that last for a long time. Indra has done all this in som's drunkenness. 
O Indra! You are the destroyers of evil intellects. We beg of you. O very powerful Indra! Give us the proper money for us. O Indra Dev with the wisdom that inspires wealth! Give us the best money. 
He was attached. After that he became king. (1)
O Indra! Be willing to give us food. O century! Wish you to give us the cow. O Lord Indra! Wish you to give us gold. 
O Brave Indra! When the Somras is ready in our yajna, you become happy and hold strength. We know you with unlimited power and wish you. You protect us. (5)
O Indra with the Maruts! You are happy in a good house or a new place. You come to our yagna. O Satyadhan! With your wish, we give happiness. 
Without Indra's help, people who wish for victory cannot defeat their enemies. That is why they call Indra on the occasion of war. Those who are able to remove immovable mountains and who see the virtue of beings are Indra. (9)
All the gods observe fast in the lap of the earth. The sun and the moon live happily near it. 
The demoniac persons think, “I have gained so much wealth today, and I shall now fulfill this desire of mine. This is mine, and tomorrow I shall have even more. That enemy has been destroyed by me, and I shall destroy the others too! I am like God himself, I am the enjoyer, I am powerful, and I am happy. I am wealthy and I have highly placed relatives. Who else is equal to me? I shall perform sacrifices (to the celestial gods); I shall give alms; I shall rejoice.” In this way, they are deluded by ignorance.
May we get sinlessness and well-being from happiness and friendship through great and ignited agni. Let us get the best pleasures from the sun. Today we ask the gods for the same special protection. 
Wherever The Beautiful and Many-called Ashwinikumar lives, he may receive hymns like an emissary. It was this hymn that had attracted the Ashwinikumars to me. O Ashwanikumaro! You are extremely pleased with the praises of The Psalms. 
After this, Shuku made his body subtle and placed it in Anshumati's lap. With the help of Jupiter, Indra killed the subjects who did not accept the power of the gods. (9)
O bharadwaj! Please the god of agni with the best of praises, the one who bears the lamps, the brightest, your guest, the leader of heaven, the leader of the heavens, the one who calls the gods in manu's yajna, the adornment, the bright, the bright-hearted and the lord of all. 
I'm holding your hand for good luck. With me husband you become old-bodyed. The gods like Bhaga, Aryama, Savita and Pusha have given you so that I can follow the householder's religion with you. 
I salute the Gandharva wife apsaras who make human beings cry, are powerful, willing to deactivate the senses and are pleasing to the mind. (5)
O agni! Send your light to your parents, Dyava-Prithvi, just as the sun sends its light to them. The host who wishes for the yajna wants to perform the yajna with a true heart and is willing to speak the word of praise. Adhwaryu is eager to complete the yajnakarma. Brahma increases the hymn and his intellect sometimes begins to doubt about the yagna. 
The god with a firm limb, the lotus fixed due to being firm, all beings, the cause of the world brahma, ten pranas and all the gods are dependent on the remaining rice after performing hutashishta i.e. havan, in the same way as the wheel of the chariot depends on the axis. (4)
O Indra! You are like a boat in the world. You are the one who sees everyone, gives light to everyone and you are the illuminator of all. (16)
Cook panchodana roop aj. The directions with the indigences should be unanimous and accept it with the inlands. (37)
 O Indra. You are strong, powerful and fulfilling wishes. You are rich, vajradhari and superior. You come with your defense tools. You provide enclosures full of cows. 
Recite mantras that violate demons. Recite mantras to destroy trespassing means. Recite mantras that give nutrition. Recite mantras that destroy the means of communication. Recite mantras for evil prevention. Recite mantras to destroy the hidden evil means. We dig out the hidden means of conduct. We dig out the evil experiments that our sajatis have done. (23)
O worldly! Give me to Sarvamangalkarini Devi. O Kalyani! Protect all our two-legged sons, grandsons etc. and four-legs. (3)
 O Ashwinikumaro! You are going to destroy enemies. You make us Goans. Please bring your golden chariot to our yagna with your heart. 
O ladies! The disease is removed from the body of the one whose limbs and lumps you take shelter in such a way that the mighty king drives the thief out of the country. 
This is the hymn! Worship Indra, the leader of all, the creator of all, the great and the one who is pleased with Som. Indra's admirable forces worship the great food and happiness. 
Havi is cooked as milk in the udders of the cow and the milk brewed from the udders is cooked by heating it on the agni. I believe that this havi is well cooked, so this havi is true and more innovative. O Indradhari and one who does many deeds! While you are happy, drink a body called Somaras, which is related to Somras, in the Midhandin Savan i.e. Yagya. (1)
People praise agni like the sun by wearing a havan and performing a havan of ghee. 
O Kumar! I give you for the sake of protection, that is, for the gods of both day and night. O gods! You must protect this child from the poor and from the demons who eat. (20)
Its right ear is agni and the left ear is poman. (3)
O wind! You plough hundreds and thousands of your horses in the chariot and come quickly to this yajna. O wind! Please also rejoice in this yajna and please protect us with your welfare means. (28)
Wise people praise both Indra and Agni for their protection in this way. People suffering the same praise for getting food. 
O Indra! This praise group is for you. O Ashwaswamy Indra! Get to know our yajna through this hymn-like way and come close to us easily. We get food, strength and long life. 
O Sacrificial God! You are omnipresent. Hosts see you in particle particles. You are pervaded like the son of the day. Earth, forest land, and animals are also an extension of you. Please provide money to human beings. (6)
O patient man! May the holy water and divine herbs destroy tuberculosis from every part of your body. (3)
The land which was before this land in front of the present. Sages who got power from the influence of penance knew him. Whoever knows that land located in the kalpa of the past will be considered to know the ancient meaning. (7)
We praise heaven, constellations, stars, land, yakshas and mountains. May the oceans, rivers and lakes save us from sin. (10)
The wealth of the raining Jupiter is pervasive, mature, main and accessible. This wealth is beautiful and annaswami is provided by Jupiter. Both the stota and the host types of human beings meditate and enjoy that wealth. 
The evil-minded and mentally retarded enemies had dug up the vast Parushni river and dropped it on its banks. By indra's grace, sudas expanded on the earth and he had killed the poet, the son of chaiman, like a pet and put him to sleep on the earth. 
O virgin! You hide your body in the embrace. He's not the kind you think he thinks. (5)
O hosts! Call Indra, the creator of the ushas, the one who speaks the rivers and the guardian of the avadhya cows. You desire the milk of cows. 
O host! In heaven, all the streams of pits filled with ghee, honey edges, wine-like water and full of milk, curd and water should reach you. All these streams should reach you while sanctifying sweetly in heaven obtained as the fruit of Brahmaudan Session Yajna and the present lake should also be present nearby. (6)
Som, the God of the rivers and the lord of heaven, are purified and go through the path of yajna by saying words. Soms with infinite streams are filled into characters by the ritwijas. Mon is green, speaking words, purging and approaching. 
May the Agni God, who is the One who eats all, who is said to be the one who is worthy of wishing and giving desired results, who is the Agni God, wise, capable of doing all the work, defeating the enemies and not going to be defeated by anyone, may he get my sacrifice. (4)
People who protect from Krita Rakshasi make the gem made of tilak tree their armor. This gem destroys the work sent by another in the same way as the sun reaches the sky and destroys darkness. (7)
O hosts! We pray in the burning agni for Indra, the eldest of the gods, for your welfare and give a delightful praise. We call upon Azar, the one who made everyone old, the one who made everyone old, the eternal and eternal young Indra, to protect ourselves. 
Indra killed the enemy with a bright weapon while listening to the praises. No one can fight with Indra's army. People who go everywhere and are afraid of indra's anti-hostile thunderbolt. After this, the sun went and Usha drove her car. 
O agni! We hosts follow you every day. Hosts get all kinds of money by your grace. With you, we should go to the enclosure of cows like ushijas, wishing for all kinds of money. (28)
The cloud that arises calls for him and roars and praises him. (6)
O Father and Mother Earth! Give us food. May the earth, which knows everyone, who knows everyone, is full of harmony, and gives happiness to all, give us children, strength and wealth. 
In the place where those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go through initiation and penance, Anagni Dev should take me there. May Agni Dev give me wisdom. This sacrifice is well received by agni. (1)
Let me be the top form of wealth. In those who are like me, I should be as high as the head. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Come quickly and protect the praises of men. Don't go to anyone else. 
In the great Indra sangram, when they are engaged for a long time in the great Indra struggle who kills the enemies, indra's wife calls such indra in the yajnashala who gets excited by drinking the somras squeezed by ritwij and fulfills the wishes. 
Hey Mon! You become our rich, curative, wealth-giver, wealth enhancer and rich. 
Indra is the master of many wealth by coming in yajna, very stable in wars, conquering food and powering. 
The snake's closed face should not open to bite us. Male and female snakes living in this area i.e. snakes and snakes should become powerless with the power of mantras. (8)
This pregnant woman! May the demon who comes near you while sleeping or who wants to do violence to you in a waking state, may this mustard destroy them all in the same way as the sun that roams in the sky destroys darkness. (8)
O agni with hot rays! Just as we break the earthen pot with sticks, stones, etc., you must destroy in all respects the enemy who does not donate money, who hates us and threatens us. 
Roaring in the clouds, he becomes a brahmachari Varuna, who attains the full cloud of water, and showers his water-like semen in high places. With that water, the four directions on the earth hold the creatures. (12)
O Somras-having Ashwinikumaro! May your repeated praises bring us happiness. O people of specific knowledge! You come like a bird hawking in front of us. 
We know Chandra, the father of hundreds of powers and arrows. O patient man! I eliminate your urinary diseases with the same arrow. The urine that was stopped in your stomach came out and fell on the earth. (4)
O you of praise Indra! When we go to Someras Nichud, our hymns are near you like the heroes sitting on the chariot. O Indra! Just as the singing is thrilled to see the calves, so our praises belong to you. 
O agni! Your brightness is spread in heaven, special yajna and Gayatri verses. That glow is also present in space and trishtupanda. You have the same brightness in the earth, the meeting place and the world verses. This sacrifice is dedicated to spreading your glory or fame even more. (18)
O agni better than arani churning! You are the completer of the fruits of karma and are meritorious. We hold you around to abuse monsters. You are the one who has the abrasive form and destroys the demons every day. (1)
May Brahma get this sacrifice well. (29)
At the time that Mudgalani sat on the chariot and won our cows, the wind shook her robe. In this winning battle for cows, she was sitting on the chariot. That Mudgal consort named Indrasena snatched the cows from the enemies in the war. 
O Indra! You had drunk Somras before, similarly, Ribhu and Rudra devas praise you for drinking Somras. (1)
Fire hosts are worth consuming. Fire is worthy of praise by scholars. Agni Nayak and Som are guardians. We call for a paradise and earth without malice. O God! You make us beautiful and have money for us. (29)
The horses with white drops, the sons of cows of various colours, the shobhana dynamic, the present on the tongue of agni, the knower of everything and the sun-like eye-lit deserts should come here to protect us. 
The brilliant Savita wears diverse forms and commands welfare for animals and human beings. The superior Savita Dev illuminates heaven and spreads the light after Usha rises. 
Whatever we have donated to others, whatever we have reimbursed, whatever dakshina we have given, please hold it for vishwakarma agni gods. (64)
 O Indra! You provide proper 
 Intelligent hosts are also afraid of the power of enemies. They soon reached where SOM was being prepared. They started playing instruments for the holy Soma there, which made a sweet sound. By the grace of Som, the unbearable enemy can also be suppressed. 
O Indra! When you defeated all the opposing asuras, at the same time you cut off Namuchi's head by wrapping a foam of water on the vajra. 
O Indra! You also weaken the steady force of the one who wants to abuse us. "He who wants to destroy us, crush him with your feet." The divinely virtuous and well-being mother has given birth to you. 
O God of Agni! Through the power you have to grieve others, grieve those who hate us or those we hate. (4)
 O Indra! You are capable. You fill the minds of armed warriors with enthusiasm. You also fill our minds with enthusiasm. You make our warhorse horses faster. As we emerge victorious, the chants of our chariots echo. 
Oh, the moving agni! You, ignited with all kinds of agnis, protect us from condemnation and destroy our enemies by giving us money. May we be happy to have a beautiful child for a hundred years. 
 O Mon! With your grace, the host sings praise and you are adorned for happiness. 
The asura enemies beat up the sage Rebh and tied him with sad ropes and threw him into the well. Distressed and drenched in water, Rebh lay there for ten nights and nine days. Just as Adhwaryu removes somras with the help of a khuch, so you pulled them out of the well. 
This usha, the daughter of < akash, has been seen by humans as nitya yuvavana, shvaitvasana, tamovinasini and the adhiswari of all the possessions. O glorious Usha! You destroy the darkness here today. 
The very bright Indra went out of his desire to befriend the Angiragotrian sages. For the perfect warrior Indra, the mountain drove out the cows locked inside it. Indra, who wished for the cows of the asuramaraks and angiras along with the Nityatarun Maruts, received them. Sage Angira immediately worshiped Indra. 
The place of origin of water never weakens even if it is with a hundred or thousand streams, in the same way, this grain of ours becomes thousands of streams in many ways and becomes decay-free. (4)
O Lord! No one can be as diverse as you. May the desire with which we perform yajna be fulfilled. Let us become masters of wealth. (65)
At the time of the birth of the sun, his mother serves his father. As a result of this, she becomes full of intelligence and mind and is bound by the juice of the womb. People carrying Havi's food approach this story. (8)
O Indra, lord of maghwa and ashtas! Together with the maruts who raised you up when you kill the vritra, helped you in the sambar slaughter, supported you in the battle with the pangs for the cows, and the learned deserts who still please you today, you drink the mon. 
O Usha, who has the word of truth and drives away the enemies! We awaken the one who makes you know by praises. 
Protect me in the west direction with water medicines i.e. herbs. They protect me in my leg-keeping and in the place of keeping my feet. They should protect me and serve my interest in the city where I go. I surrender myself to Vayu Dev. This water should be received. (6)
O Indra! I fill both your wombs with somers. May this someras flow into your veins. You take the madhu ful someras with your tongue. (2)
By converting themselves into Vishnu, the people who are interested in the beloved and indestructible Brahmaloka, which is beloved of Vishnu and consumed by all, I will get the same loka. They are all brothers and nectar is showered in their place. 
O fire well- lit fire! Bring the gods for the welfare of our host. O you who call the gods! Complete our yajna. 
 Som is the swami of wealth, milk etc. juice and power. They are the best child givers. The host squeezes the best somers. 
Agni is omniscient since birth. Ghee is their eyes. Havi is nectar. The essence of the three metals is Raja. He is the creator of water. He is the creator and havi of summer. (66)
The chakraform armament of the pusha never ends. Its shell is never empty. Its edge is not hollow. 
Chet is the heart of the cow, liver i.e. liver medha i.e. intellect and fast is pure (intestine) pulse.  (11)
In this world, there is nothing as purifying as divine knowledge. One who has attained purity of mind through prolonged practice of Yog, receives such knowledge within the heart, in due course of time.
Fire is going to be used in good works. Swaha for agni. Agni is the one who puts mind and intellect in good deeds. Swaha for agni. Fire inspires the mind to have special knowledge. Swaha for agni. Agnivani is specially worn. Swaha for agni. Swaha for Prajapati Manu Dev. Swaha for Prajapati Agni. For Prajapati Vaishvanar. (66)
The Vasha cow which has a place in the yajna, which gives excessive milk, whose life is the life and which is the most famous on the earth, is nourished by the grass produced due to rain, she satisfies the gods through the Vasha Gau Yagya. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! We, those who perform yajnakarma, praise you. Your chariot is a brave and eternal youth. Through him you immediately wander around in all the three realms. From that you come to our hulyukta, quick and fruitful yajna. 
O agni! We will serve you by samidha. O agni worthy of yajna! We will serve you by the adornments. O god of agni, the one with the welfare flames and the yagna! We will serve you with pride and pride. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! You are going to consider your karma as wealth. You fulfill our wishes day and night with your power. Your donation never diminishes. Like your own donations, our donations should never be reduced. 
O agni! The gods, knowing you well, sat down and worshiped you with their wives. You were sitting on your knees in front of them. The gods were protected by you and yours. When he saw his friend Agni, he began to perform yajna, drying his bodies. 
 O Indra! You are fearless and stunning. May you give us abundant prosperity. By getting that money, we should also become the power of donors. 
Those who are our enemies should go away. Let us hinder them with the help of Indra and Agni. Vasu, Rudra and Aditya make me the most conscious, omniscient and master of all with the best advanced power. 
Oh my friend and Varun! We come to drink the mon squeezed by the havyadatas. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You can neither possess gods nor humans, you defeat all beings by your power. The gods cannot cover you. 
 O hosts! Friends and Varuna are great, brilliant and huge. You sing hymns with a loud voice for these gods. Both the gods should be pleased to come to the yajna place to listen to those stotras. 
O sun! We can see you well. You're going to see everyone well. We see everything specifically with the human eye. 
Arjun said: You are the Supreme Divine Personality, the Supreme Abode, the Supreme Purifier, the Eternal God, the Primal Being, the Unborn, and the Greatest. The great sages, like Narad, Asit, Deval, and Vyas, proclaimed this, and now you are declaring it to me yourself.
O Shur Indra! Your glory increases from the earth-sky like the axis of the wheels of your chariot. O Indra, called by many! Many of your defenses grow like tree branches. 
 Someras is an intellectual enhancer. It has been wanted by many people. Get into the water like waves. It is filtering the character with the wishes of the hosts. 
Horn originated. (13)
God himself is born. He has created the whole world. First of all, he called the womb stream in the great arnava (sea). Prajapati Brahma was born from that womb. (63)
 O hosts! Indra, by his grace, gives you such children, who are interested in yajna. They fulfill the aspirations of the hosts. They are enemies. All of you worship Indra. 
Sun, Moon and Agni - these three follow the path of truth and follow their dharma according to power. The power of one of these three attains the Ritvijas. The second power increases the force and the third power protects the nation. (13)
O Ashwaswamy Indra! You have gained from the psalms and killed those who did not give alms, and your friends were enemies of the hosts. Those who see you as a shelter and who come before you to give you a gift, they will receive children from you. 
 Som is going to know all the paths well. They are like friends. Soma is self-conscious, one who frees the mind from sin and concentrates it. That is filtered for us. 
Hota performed a good yajna for the agni. Agni blessed him and dedicated the dhams of Chhag to Ashwini Kumars. Rishabh Dham was dedicated to Ashvinikumaras. He dedicated the temple of Mesh to Goddess Saraswati. Dedicated the beloved dham of Varun Dev. Dedicated to the beloved dham of vegetation. He dedicated his favorite dham for drinking ghee. Fire is omniscient. They are glorious. They should consume the beloved Havi. Do welfare of hosts. That was it! You should also perform a similar yajna. (47)
O smooth and wet Mon! Together with Indra, give us the wealth with the strength of the sobhan.  
This pregnant woman! I stretch the urethra to get the baby out and also the nerves around the vagina. Because they hinder delivery. I separate mother and son. After this, I separate the son from the young man. The newborn falls down from the uterus. (5)
In whose body parts thirty-three gods reside separately, only those thirty-three gods know those who are the knowers of Brahman. (27)
O people with conflicting minds! I make your hearts subject to My heart.   Make your hearts follow my heart. Let your hearts be in my control and you all follow me. (2)
We offer prayers to the maruts with beautiful yagnas to get divine birth and earth-related water. May our praises grow joyfully, illuminating meaning, and let the rivers nourished by the maruts be filled with water. 
O wise agni! Call the gods to this place of worship and perform yajna for them. O agni that calls the gods! You sit in three places, wishing for our greetings, accept Somrup Madhu on the north altar and be satisfied with your share from the agneeghar. 
The sun-rays that live in the sky are the horses of the kamyarini agni. There is a dwelling of agni in the divine rivers with sweet water. O agni that desires to dwell in the place of Udak and provides flames! Singing as secondary voice serves you. 
Mystics perform yajna etc. work with this mind. With this mind, patient people are engaged in the best work. The mind is unique and respected among the hosts. Let that mind of ours become full of welfare resolutions. (2)
Indra Dhanwan, greedy and somras who drink somras do not mate with the non-squeezing host. They destroy the wasted wealth of such people by making it clear. Indra somras become a close friend of the host who squeezes and cooks the havya. 
O Lord Indra of the Somas! You come near the mon squeezed by us with the help of horses named Har. 
Even if the sinner and the liar is powerful, Mon does not leave him. They kill the untrust and the monster. Both of them die and sleep in the bond of Indra. 
Good bathing, bathing water, fast-moving and small amounts of water, cave-in, white-colored, high-level river water, present water in the form of a river – all of these entered the man's body. (28)
 Hey friend! O Varuna! Let us be wealthy with scholars 
Makes the nest. (5)
We increase the agni of the lord of all wealth by praise, the one who delivers to the gods, the deathless, the very sacrificial, and the angel agni. 
Hey Mon! You must become a godly person, walk away swiftly and become holy. He is a wishy Mon! You enter Indra. 
O friend and Varun! You should sit in a golden chariot with your iron nails after dawn and sunrise. You look at both Diti and Aditi. 
Oh, god up! Protect the fast-moving apanpata i.e. agni of that sweet som of yours. With vasus in which Indra is pleased, we will consume the same today while wishing for the gods. 
Agni, like an army with the commander or like the bright head arrows of Dhanushka's, is intimidating to the enemies. The Bhoot Sangha which appear or will appear in the future is only Agni. Agni is the king of virgins and the husband of married women. 
O Indra! You dropped a lot of water from the vritra. You were the only one who was wary of these free waters. You had confirmed the body of the creatures of the whole world with the waters obtained by killing the vritra. 
 O hosts! You take a bright, succulent somersa and go to Indra. They know the wishes of the refuge. They fulfill their wishes. They remove obstacles, tribulations. 
Enemies who want to violence others, who come from the north and worship me at night, should receive the support of the marutas for their destruction. (8)
Those who, like a sharp-horned and terrible bull, alone drive away all the enemies, and those who take away the houses of many people who do not perform yajna, give money to the one who squeezes the extreme somras. 
O Shobhan Usha! You give the grain of the yajna at this time for indra, who is fierce for the enemies and fierce for the enemies in this yajna. Just as The Charioteer takes the horse around, so does Indra's all-holding, famous and familiar light, taking them around to get the yajnan. 
People know the ushas that free the sky from the darkness. They hide the night on their own. The wives of the beloved sun are illuminated daily, ending the ages of human beings with their gamnaagana. 
In this way, born like you, I am happy to get your friendship and consider myself better. The yajna that does welfare knows all of you and transmits everywhere. (22)
O Agni God who knows everything! You are a revolutionary. Therefore, you know the demons who obstruct from the south, north, east and west directions. You protect us by your defense trades. You are my friend, so protect your sakha i.e. me. O God of Agni! You are without old age, protect me old and weak. You are without death, protect me, my dharma of death. (20)
O brahmachari! You have worn new clothes. We're taking the worn garments before you. May all gods protect you. Many brothers growing up with shobhan growth should be born after you. (5)
O Indra! We have squeezed for you someras, the most virtuous of the sins, and the most powerful. 
Let us have the principal and food-rich wealth that the riches that the famous leader, The Sages, along with Vajgana, should come to us. The chariot made by the Vibhus for the Ashwinikumaras is particularly praiseworthy in the yajna. Oh, God! What you protect becomes especially admirable. 
Hey Ritvijo! And the hosts! We invoke the best Indra for your well-being. Indra is only ours. 
 Somerus is squeezed. It is then refined. Then it is added to the water. You are added to cow's milk. The gods also call Soma. 
He was, Adhwaryu, Pratistha, Agnidhra, Gravastota, Administrator, Scholar Brahma etc. Please complete the flows to achieve the desired objectives from that yajna. (28)
The earth appeared to them and they appeared from the earth. (7)
From where did Indra, where did Soma and from where did agni originate? Where did tvashta originate and where did dhata originate? (8)
Just as air separates moss from water, Jupiter, with his light, destroyed the darkness of the mountain caves that hid cows. Just as the air scatters the clouds all over, Jupiter Dev stole it by an asura named Bal and took out the cows kept in the cave of the mountain and spread them all over. (5)
O dhanswamini usha! Give us good money and enough food for the host who gives us wealth with horses and cows. O Shobhan born Usha! People praise you for getting a horse. 
I had cut off the head of Atharva's son Dadyang. To protect the tritta that had fallen into the well, I had held water in the cloud and snatched money from the enemies. I had humbled the water-guard clouds for the welfare of Dadhichi, the son of Matrishwa. 
What Indra and the Maruts gave me, pakasthama, the son of Kuruyana, gave me. That wealth adorns all the possessions in such a way that the bright sun moving in heaven. 
The sun lives in the bright sky. Air inhabits space. Would remain located on the altar. Guests reside in the house. The rite dwells in human beings, in the best place, in the yagna and in the sky, and in the water, the sunshine, the truth, and the mountains. 
O glorious Vasuo! Let us get powerful milk-like food from your cowly praise. May that godly goddess of shobhan daan come before us soon, bringing us happiness. 
Other devas have said specifically about the impossible than possible. We have known from those patient men that the effect of the impossible is different from that. (10)
 O Indra! You come to our yagna full of hundreds of types of force. You should come to our yagna with thousands of types of food. You come to our yagna with many juices. 
The praiseworthy, hopeful and radiant Som adorns with his swiftness while falling along the streams of water. 
All our routes are thornless and simple, through which our friends reach the girl's house. Dhata, Bhaga and Aryama Dev should make it radiant. (34)
O friend of the maruts, Indra! Drink the somarus squeezed in our yajnas and intensify the thunderbolt with your power. 
I call the famous, mountain-rich, and water-raining maruts everywhere, to drink somers. 
O agni! You are aspirational, praise and a carrier of praise from poets. Please make you sister to fragrant havi. May the gods lovingly accept this havi. They provide self-dhamaya havi to the ancestors. (66)
O agni of radiant wealth! Do not enter us with demons and suffering. Keep the demons and strong demons away from us. 
 Som produces a strong diet. They are invigorating work capacity generators. They automatically become clean 
All the things that have been brought and won by injuring the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. He should not be free from the bondage of sages. I want to wrap his glory, waist, life and age and make him fall face down. (12)
Brahma wears the welfare cloth from which atonement is done, that is, the chit is purified and due to which the wife does not attain death. (30)
O Earth! May the rays of the sun provide us with all kinds of voice except for the people i.e. children and servants. O Earth! You give me sweet substances. (16)
O agni! You stay ignited day and night. Because of you we are going to have shobhan agnis. You become the ones with the welfare hymns while wishing us. 
Leave your place with the great Indra Maruts, who give money without asking for the psalms. I understand that my parents have become diseaseless. I take away the money of enemies and make them cry. 
O Indra, who has been praised many times by our wisdom! We are happy to see your jaisheel chariot in the battle with the enemies, O Dhanaswami Indra! Drive the same chariot to give us money and give happiness to our desires. 
The son of Sage Angira and like The Lord, permeating everyone with his brightness, Jupiter took the light of the sun to the cows locked in the cave. Just as the sun combines its rays in the district and mixes the husband and wife, so jupiter mixed the cows with their owners. O Jupiter! Run the cows like the horses that run in battle. 
Hrishikesh blew his conch shell, called Panchajanya, and Arjun blew the Devadutta. Bheem, the voracious eater and performer of herculean tasks, blew his mighty conch, called Paundra.
Som, who performs the word, crosses the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair. Rainers and green soms crawl in water. The praises that meditate and wish for Soma make Som their subject by doing the same as the child and making words. 
O Brahmanaspati! Cut by the snake etc., which shrinks the male organs, the joints of its organs have become loose, its organs have been forced and its mouth etc. organs have been torn. You make all the parts of it straight in the same way as the crooked seam is simplified. (4)
O agni! The vampire who is wishing to destroy us by dissolving the flesh of this man in raw, pucca and mottled vessels, especially cooked and raw, pucca food, that vampire should suffer with his children and this man should attain health. (6)
The streams are wavy, strong, national. May they give me the nation. For them. They have a huge army. For them. They are the national responsibility. For them. May they give me the nation. For them. They have a huge army. For them. They are huge patriots. For them. Please give us the nation. (2)
No one can kill apsaras, Gandharvas and human beings who wear a gem made from tilak tree, he is the swami of all directions. (13)
This comb with hundreds of teeth has been artificially created. It reaches our head and releases the scum of our head. (68)
O God! Our enemies have proved their mechanistic armor at the time of action called Tanupan and Paripan. You make the mantras related to these deeds unsuccessful. (6)
O agni! Your moving and quick-moving rays spread everywhere. You become very bright to burn the enemies and defeat them. O agni that is not restrained by the enemy! You spread sharp sparks and meteors around by your flames. 
O great, full of desire, omnipotent, fast-paced Indra! I wish you to come. O Indra, the leader of the maruts and the lord of all beings! We sing your virtues through yajnas, hymns and salutations. 
O Indra! Defeat the enemy army that appears far away in such a way that it cannot attack us again. May our warriors conquer the enemy army and play the victory indicator. Our commanders should ride on horses and go to the battlefield and our amatya and kings should be victorious. (3)
O deathless, world-keeper, agni worthy of havan and yajna! I will praise you. 
O thunderbolt Indra! The somras have been squeezed for you including the maruts. People who speak the Ukth mantra call you from the heart. 
O Indra! O agni! O Jupiter! Please keep all your radiance for us which is adorned in the form of the sun, which is located in cows and horses. (23)
That person, who gives up all material desires and lives free from a sense of greed, proprietorship, and egoism, attains perfect peace.
O agni! You bring Varuna, Indra and a friend from space for the sake of our yajna. The characters of the yajna sat on the devagan kushas. Be pleased with the word 'God Swaha', a deadly god. 
Prajapati established both truth and falsehood in different forms Prajapati established untruth as irreverence and truth as faith. He attains truth from the truth. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk, nectar and sweet substances. (77)
In both, the extending, omnivorous and rain-giver Indra, with the help of his horses, should go near our irrigated mon. O enemies Indra! Be happy to drink the somras squeezed on the gocharma in our yajna and eliminate the enemies like a bull. 
O glorious and dying God! At what time do our cows return? Let our godhan be constant. This is a wishful prayer! You be our protector and welfare. Be great for giving us food. 
A brahmin's skin-covered cow is like a vini serpent covered with earthworms. O king! It is not edible. (3)
There are two divine goddesses of agni - Usha ba Ratri. May these two goddesses be pleased to sit with agni in our yajna. (17)
Hey Mon! You had received the stolen money by the pangs. You are well purified by the water that you hold the yajna in the place of yajna. Your word sounds like the sama mantras sung at a distance. Hosts are pleased to hear your word. The bright soma gives food to the hymns through the lamps of water holding the three lokas. 
O Anjan, born on Mount Trikakud and worn by the gods to protect themselves! Protect us from all sides. Medicines produced at a higher place than the mountain, that is, herbs, cannot cross your influence. (6)
O Maruto! Separate the old armament from us. Don't let your cruelty permeate us. 
O visible! Hello to you. You look at me. (4)
With gold in hands, the pradata, the good leader, the giver of happiness and wealth, come from the front in the Savita Yajna. The Sun God heard the praise every night and took the yatudhans and demons out of the yagna. 
 O Indra! You are the destroyer and enemy of enemies. Just as Bhrigu Rishi killed the demon Val, in the same way, you should also kill our enemies by being energetic with someras paan. 
The above sea, in the sky, in which the gods have held the water, that water was rained down by Devapi, the son of Rishtashen. That water began to flow to clean places. 
I make the kingdom of the king in which I live prosperous. With the influence of my mantras, I make my king full of physical strength and elephants, horses, etc. (2)
Well-beautified, the detested, the horrid form, and the friends of each other and Varuna make the two gods, yulokarupi. 
Just as people wear wealth, the Angiravanshi sages wore the agni of yajna. Those who are the masters of wealth, who are free from the thirst of other subjects and engage in yajnakarma while wearing agni, they go in front of agni, increasing gods and human beings through havirupa food. 
 O Mon! You are light, worthy of worship, as fast as an horse and learned. Adhvaryugana 
Due to yajnakarma, Indra is born in the parts of the mountain and at the confluence of rivers. 
O God! You are the all of heroes and bir hosts in brutal wars. Please give life and charity on earth. Dhir performs yajna through swadha (sacrifice made in yajna) with the aim of motivating the earth towards the moon. Hey Yazko! You sit with the means used in the yajna. May God bless us to kill those who hate us. (28)
The one who eats before the guest ends the glory and fame of his houses. (5)
O men! He who has destroyed many sinners and non-priests, who do not give perfection to the proud one, and those who violate bandits are the ones who are blasphemers, they are Indra. 
O Indra! Drink the same beautiful somras to increase our wealth and to the anti-enemy item and go quickly to the somras. 
All the brave men who are about to go to the battlefield, desire to have a son, or those who desire wise knowledge, all of them attain perfection by the grace of Indra. 
Hey Ritvijo! Increase the agni that knows all the things that are produced by yajna and worship them with havya and elaborate praises. There are agni-igniters, adorned with food, those who take the host to heaven, the bright, the sacrificial ones, and the ones who give strength. 
O Indra called by many! One hundred and thirty sons of Varshikh, who killed you in battle, who wanted glory, the aggressors to kill you, the breakers of the sacrificial pots and the armor, were killed together near the Yvyavathi river. 
Oh, God! What kind of work can we do for you today or in the days to come? i.e. none. We can't do anything even through eternal achievable work. O friends, Varuna, Aditi, Indra and Marudgana! Do us well. 
Hey Mon! You give food for our son and send us thousands of riches from all sides. 
Truth is situated by land and sun by sky. Without the sun, the moon is not located in the sky. (1)
 O agni! You are going to be born with the help of seven mothers. You grace 
O great, mighty and mighty Maruto! The man whom you have saved from sin of a devious nature and protected from the blasphemy concerning the confirmation of the Son and grandson, follow him with innumerable indulgences. 
O Saraswati Devi! In the fasts related to you and in the form of Garhapatya Yagya etc., come forward in the divine places and accept havi and give us sons etc. (1)
 With the mad streams of Somers, these Soms are filtering in Dronakalash. They are great and welfare. 
May Indra, the protector of shobhan and the swami of wealth, destroy those who hate us from a distance. We should be in the graceful intellect of Indra worthy of yajna and he should be gentle towards us. (1)
Being elusive, one Gandharva is like a dog, another is like a monkey. Gandharva is a child even if hair grows all over the body. Gandharvas make a favorite form in appearance and meet women. I drive them away from here with the help of highly powerful mantras. (11)
The wife is seen performing yagna. After this you wish to conquer fears. (5)
O earth! You serve the brightest friend and Varuna at the time of the sun's birth. The sun climbs on a huge chariot and goes slowly. There are many forms of the seven-occurring sun. 
 O Mon! You wave the water, pure and divine. Please provide you with renewable health. 
The Queen Shashiyasi, who had filled king Taranta, praised by me in both arms, gave me hundreds of kinds of animal wealth in the form of horses, cows and aries. 
O abode aditya! Bring us across all sins through your welfare and pleasant boat. 
O purely drinking air of somers! Come to us. O favorite air of all! You have a thousand horses. O air! The somras that you have the right to drink first of all, is the same kept in the intoxicating som patra. 
O man assumed by frenzy! Apsaras and Gandharvas remove your frenzy disease and give you back to us. After this, Indra has given you for me. Havi and all the gods have given you for me so that you can be free from frenzy. (4)
O aschinikumaro! You had milched the cow for your ancient yachak shanyu sage. You saved Vartika from sin and gave Vishpala another thigh. 
 Som is omniscient, powerful and the best. Humans 
I have defeated the vast earth and the vast earth by my importance. I've been to sompan several times. 
 Someras is a madmanta, a person who knows the rituals of yajna and is the destroyer of enemies. Soma is going to remove demons who do not want gods. 
 O agni! You are divine and luminous. We definitely worship you with a good heart for the welfare of friends. 
They are the gift of the wealth of the great agni host and know the stairs of heaven. Let them bring the gods to this yagna. 
Oh my god! You echo the earth and heaven. The whole world can know and accept you. You love gods and Lord Indra. Please keep your enemies away from us. (55)
The sun is visible in the east direction. His day-to-day life is struggling. They are being published for Shobha. When the hosts appeared to the sun from heaven, they came in the form of agni to receive the eclipse. (1)
The drunk somras vibrates and lifts me up in the same way as the air vibrates. I've had somers drinking many times. 
Austerity that is performed with ostentation for the sake of gaining honor, respect, and adoration is in the mode of passion. Its benefits are unstable and transitory.
O agni that pervades seven places and is without death! You give money to the host who gives the best and the adornment yajnakar. Bring to him the one who increases you through samidha, with good wealth and children. 
The Kashu king who appointed ten kings of the color of gold in my service, all the people live under the feet of the same king Kashu. 
We are truly pleased with us and admire the strong son of agni. We give a vow to the agni that is meant for the gods. Let our protectors, progressives and troublemakers of our sons be in the agni war. 
We tie the gold thread that dakshabanshi (Brahmins of Dakshavanshi) tied to the king with hundreds of armies with a good heart on our body to attain the age of hundred years. We are old and old. (52)
Hey Mon! Why do the sages call you a protector of the mantra and the savior of blasphemy? Why do you see our condemnation by your enemies? You run your heating weapon over those Brahmin opponents. 
O wind! You want to hold the planet Venus. O God! You are the forward. You come from heaven. You come fast to drink sweet somers. (30)
Just as the eyes spread around the sky see, the scholars also look at vishnu's supreme paradise. 
O ashchinikumaro with full wealth! Come to our house to drink potable somras by the leaders. End the yajna with our praise like an arrow that kills enemies. 
O Mon! You are the giver of joy. Please be happy everywhere. You be good. You are famous and our friend. You get an increase. (114)
May Jupiter, who destroys the misery, destroy our sins and raise the yoke on the one who wants our evil. Let them destroy the enemy, destroy the evil sense and save the host from disease and be fearless. 
The red colored Kamdhenu etc. of the gods and the red songs of humans, taking both these types of red color form and youth, O patient man! We cover you. (3)
Oh, Yum! Come to this yajna with the nanarupdhari and the sacrificial angiras and please the host. I call your father, Vivaswan. They sit in this yajna and please the host. 
 O hosts! You are going to sanctify Som. You sanctify Someras for Indra to drink and please do us welfare. 
The killed Brahmin's cow becomes a non-vegetarian animal and eats the killer. (3)
Yagniks inspired by Indrani cook fifteen or twenty bulls for me. By eating them I become fat. The Yagniks fill both my eyes with somras. Indra is the best. 
While settling with ancient hymns, these somas fall from all sides to the gods from their stream. 
O Indra Dev! No divine god like you has ever been born on earth and will not be. You are rich. You exhort us . You make us strong. We call upon you. (36)
    O Mon! You jump with your thousand streams to provide food. You are refined to offer to the gods. 
O swami! From the beginning of creation, Prajapati had tied you to heroic work. The beginning can't hinder you. O man! For the sake of life, for light, for energy and for strength, I tie a gem in your hand to calm the troubles of enemies. May this gem protect you. (1)
To carry the horse like ploughing horses in a human vehicle, plough a horse named Kamna Supplementary Hari in Devrath and please plough a horse named Dhrishnu in the chariot. (6)
Unless the owner of the cow makes a resolution regarding the cow, he should wander in his cows, then do not live in his house. (27)
The juice by which the semenless man is made reproductive, the juice by which the patient man is pleased, O foster god of the mantra group! Expand this man's senses like a bow with the same juice. (2)
We will put all the women who sleep in the courtyard, who sleep on the ride, sleep on the cot and have a smell. 
Hey Varun! I don't speak of my poverty in front of a richer and more charitable person. O Deeptiman Varun! We never lack the necessary funds. We will do many praises in this yajna by receiving shobhan dhan. 
O Indra! You come to this yagna attracted by our devotion. Brahmins are invoking you. You come to hear the prayer of a priest named Waghat holding somras. 
O godly agni! I will not outrage you for the false exception nor will I insult you for sin. My stota won't do that either. Don't interrupt me by being a mindless enemy. 
The sage Atharva, the father of all the people, Manu, and the son of Atharva, the sage Dadyang, all the yajnakarmas used in them, the havi form of food and hymns used in them got only Indra like the yajnas of the ancient sages. So Indra demonstrated his authority. 
O Indra, the lord of men! Just as a triple-folded rope is firm, so you are the pattern of all beings in force. O Indra! You were enemyless since your birth, so Lum is fully capable of carrying three kinds of fastness in three realms and this world. 
These special seers, kept in the characters and being holy Mon! They are known by all by everyone, inspiring the great food produced in the water. 
Yosha wears this form. I know Yosha. I will go by the sakhis with this new trick. Which scholar has done this hairstyle? (56)
All the beings salute the light of this Usha, because this beautiful netri Usha gives light and this dhanvati swargputri drives away the evils and exploiters. 
There are four fixed terms of speech. The revolutionary Brahmins know them. Three of them are not visible by being hidden in the cavity, the voice of the fourth verse is spoken by man. 
O agni! You follow the east direction. You be the pioneer. Lead you all. You are a scholar and hope for all. You shine in all directions with your bright flames. You force all the two and four steps. (66)
 O Indra! We are your friends, that is why we have never been tired of labor, never afraid of anyone. You are great. Your grace is commendable. Both Turvash and Yadu appear happy. 
O mustard medicine to the Udumbala, Tundel and Shalud asuras with extreme friction, long jatas like munis, violent, frequent suffering and looking for the womb all over! Kill your foot well, just as the bad cow breaks the soil harness by hitting the back foot. (17)
May Indra Dev and Agni Dev, who are happy with us, bind those enemies of ours in bondage. (3)
I consider myself to be living with the knowledge growth of the Ashwini Kumars. You enlighten My wisdom and give riches to men. (1)
 O Indra! You are the master of wealth and the hero. You are praiseworthy of speech, good truth and glorious. 
O aschinikumaro! You are as healthy and pleasant as bulls and as realistic as friend Varuna, giving hundreds of pleasures and getting quick praise. You are as strong as horses and located as a sun moon, and you are made of a fleshy substance like rams. 
Swaha for Bani Dev. (Bai) Swaha for prana vayu. (Dai) Swaha for prana vayu. (Left) Swaha for eye (eye). (Right) Swaha for eyesight. (Left) Swaha to the ear. (Right) Swaha for the ear. (3)
Without enemies and bright friends and Varuna! Sit in this place with poles, high and thousand pillars. 
O Ritvizzo and hosts! Call the wise, pervasive and grained agni to sit on the cushions. 
The sages who have pleased the Ashchinikumars with the service of chariot-building, who have made the parents young with the dilapidation of old age, who made dhenu and the horse, made armor for the gods, separated the earth and the sky, are the broad, the leaders and the ones who work for the attainment of a glorious child. 
I put all the moving beings to sleep. Their eyes and nose are accepted by sleep. I have also made their hands, feet, etc. sleep. All this is done at midnight, when there is an excess of darkness. (4)
May you awaken to Yama's desire to me yummy. Just as the wife displays her body in front of her husband to sleep together on the same bed, so I will light up my body. Come on, let's both engage in the same task as the two wheels of the chariot. 
O agni! You are a thousand eyes, a hundred murdhas, a hundred souls. You are a thousand people with a thousand lives. You are our master. We offer you an annamaya sacrifice. Swaha for you. (71)
This agni was the head of the sky, the navel of the earth and the master of the earth and the central region of the sky. O global! All the gods had created you as jyotirup and dandiguna rich for the welfare of the best human beings. 
The friends of Shobhan-Yajnakarma and Varuna are the masters of wealth and chariots. He is a long time ago, born shobhan, aditiputra and vratdhari. 
 Som is sweet and intelligent. Someras is going to inspire Indra. The host squeezes someras and mixes it in water, refining it further. 
O God of favorable brightness and the present agni god in the earth-sky! Tell us our praise to the gods very well. May we give pleasure to the psalmists with Shobhan Griha. Let us destroy enemies and transcend sins. By Your grace, let us get rid of the enemy. 
The urine that is stopped in your intestines, in the ureter and in the bladder, let it come out quickly, saying all your urine. (6)
O burn! Calm the waves of your karma and loosen the reins. Vehicles that do good deeds and do not kill should not start doing inauspicious. (16)
Fire already exists. They publish the day before dawn. They illuminate many rays of the sun. They are the creators of the agni world. We see agni moving in heaven and earth. (17)
 O agni! O Indra! The best quality scholars worship both of you gods. The prayer for you is born in the same way 
At the time when Indra, pleased with sacrificial food, killed Vrithra, who stopped the flow of the river by raining water, he remained as immovable as a mountain in the midst of the stream-flowing water and gained enough strength by protecting humans in thousands of ways. 
Whoever knows this, all beings become his friends. (11)
The sages who are later should get this sacrifice well. (13)
Hey Mon! May the juice that has come out of you or the part of yours that has fallen under the latch, may Jupiter meet them both with water to give us wealth. 
O agni! You are the means of yajna, the one who invokes the gods, the debtors, the best of knowledge, the destroyers of the ages of enemies, the angels and the ones without death. We install you in the yagna like Manu. 
The squeezed som meets with the rays of Indra, air and sun in dashapavitra. 
For the first gods, medicines have been born in three ages. We have knowledge of the potential of hundreds of dhams and seven grains. The medicines are cooked and brownish in color. (75)
O aschinikumaro! Give us admirable assets and make us able to produce offspring on time. Don't give us the enemy's possession. 
We call the gods like Bhaga, Mitra, Aditi, Daksha, Marudgana, Aryama, Varuna, Som, Ashwinikumar etc. by the vedarupi pre-vedic voice. May saraswati with shobhan wealth make us happy. 
Just as the present object group and the things that arise in the future are neither afraid of anyone, nor apprehensive, nor destroyed, O my soul! In the same way, do not be afraid of anyone. (6)
O Swami of the earth! May the swami of the earth, Prajapati, give us your food which is scattered on the earth. (45)
O Lord of the mountains Indra! Respect the hymns of the sages of the Atrigotrian. O gentlemanly and multi-work indra! Drink your fixed part of the Somras by the gods by defeating all enemies and velocities and becoming victorious of the waters. 
O night! You have completed the earth and the world heaven of fathers with your darkness. The great night especially covers the places of Dulok. The darkness of the blue color pervades everyone. (1)
May the sages who composed eleven richas receive this sacrifice well. (8)
This bride is kalyanmayi. All get together and watch it. All of you remove the misfortune of this while giving it luck. (28)
Balputra and immortal agni! The host who serves you through yajna, samidha, hymns and words is best known among men and adorns with wealth and bright food. 
O Indra! Be pleased with the somarous food. He is enough to create a slanderous anger in you. May Mon create happiness in your heart. 
There are those who always think of me and engage in exclusive devotion to me. To them, whose minds are always absorbed in me, I provide what they lack and preserve what they already possess.
The radiance that is in the form of excess of force in Gajendra, violence in cheetah and sighing in gold, in waters, in cows and in humans, the same fortunate radiance has given birth to Indra. That Tejasrupa Devi came to us with our glory. (2)
O agni! You are at this time the leader of our gentle, grown,desired fruit-giver, the leader of the truth and the great yajna. 
In the still place between the devas, the present-day Takshata Deva holds an iron axe in his hand. 
The Guru said to his disciple in this way: O Devdutt! If you consume odan with the help of your own soul and loved ones, with the help of your cosmic soul and loved ones, then your soul and form air will renounce you. As an answer to this, the disciple should tell his guru that I have consumed it with orientation, alien-oriented and soul-oriented. I have consumed this odan with the help of saptarshi form prana and apana air, thus the hotan consumed is full body, I have delivered it where it should have gone. Thus, the odan consumed is the desired fruit. By this method, the one who consumes this odan is the one with all the organs, with all the joints and the whole body. (7)
O Lord indra of the ashes! You have drunk the somras prepared in the morning. This median swan is only for you. Taste this sweet mon to you. O Indra who showers more! You irrigate your stomach with somras. 
We call King Som, Agni, Adityagana, Surya, Vishnu, Jupiter and Prajapati through praises to protect us. 
Indra is the giver of wealth and the protector of wealth. Indra is like a friend to the one who prepares somers. O Stotao! You praise Indra. (10)
O aschinikumaro! You come from east, west, north and south. You come from all sides with a property that interests five characters. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of well-being. 
The four directions related to Dyulok, Prachi etc. and the four directions of the earth and indra etc. gods, the presiding deity of these directions, completed the first womb. All those gods should take the womb out of the uterus at this time and free it from the covering of the newborn. (2)
O Varun with obhavana! Even while living in the sea, make my thirsty sonta happy and have mercy on me. 
O home-performing and enlightening agni! You sit at your place, i.e., the north altar, and take the sacrificial host to the best realm. O God protector agni! Worship the gods through havya and give me enough food to the host who performs the yajna. 
 O sakhao! Indra is vajrawale. We worship them with prayers. We seek blessings from Brahmagyani Indra. They are the best mighty and the one who defeats the enemies. We worship them for the benefit of everyone. 
The welfare and wise are pure for goods and wealth in space like somas waters. 
O medicine called a hundred knots of darbha! Your upper part is in hell and you are located on earth. In this way, I increase your life by a medicine called Darbha, which spreads from earth to heaven and has a thousand knots. (3)
O aschinikumaro! One of you breaks the clouds and drives away the enemies like Indra and goes to desire many grains, and the host people to move the other by the lord to pass away. When they are pleased, rivers full of water that break the banks come to us. 
Nirkrit Devi removes the bonds that had gripped your neck, you get rid of those bonds. You take nutritious food. You give us money. Our salutations to the Goddess. (65)
O dhanswamini usha! Give food to these host hymns with the brave offspring. They will give renewable money by becoming wealthy owners. O Shobhan born Usha! People praise you for getting ass. 
Just as the cows lick the calf produced in the first stage, the water without desolation goes to Indra's beloved and beautiful Som. 
May agni destroy all the demons with its sharp sharpness and give us wealth. 
They want to drop water to produce grass like the Indra Megh group and tell us the way to our habitat. When they receive soma from all parts of their body, hawks kill enemies by becoming lohmy back like a bird 
Happy, shobhan-born, shobhan-yajna-yaagya, wise, visible and a guest-like worshipable agni! I offer you new praise. 
All praises are worthy of choice, for the sake of wealth donation, the sons of force and jati should go before the agni. The deathless agnis in humans live in two forms. Those who are immortal among the gods and complete the home among the human beings and those who are very happy among the people. 
O Indra! Even when the struggle is in a hurry, you go to the yagna. At that time you are friends with the Ashchenikumars. O Shur Indra! At that time you hold a thousand riches for us. Ashwinikumar give us money. 
Indra, Varuna, friends, agni, water, herbs and trees listen to this hymn of ours. We will be happy to be near the maruts. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O Rudra! Don't agni your divine arrow on us dead. O Pashupati! Don't get angry with us. Hello to you. Leave your divine arrow as wide as a branch elsewhere than us. (19)
 O Mon! You are powerful, enlightening, willful and determined to increase strength. O wish-breaker! You deities and human beings are the ones who bear welfare deeds for all. 
O God of sun and wind! You accept my havi in this field. Both the sun and the wind have brought water to the sky in the form of clouds, watering this frozen land in the form of rain. (7)
Hey Paso! Make us your friends and make us happy. Don't use your terrible and unbearable influence on us. May your anger enter our enemies. Let the enemy come quickly to the bondage of yellow dice. 
O agni! You are omniscient. You know the place where the father resides. Therefore, please do Havi Behen for the ancestors of Pitarlok away from us. Please sprinkle streams of water near the ancestors. May the blessings of the ancestors be devoted to us. We salute the ancestors. Swaha for agni. (20)
O Ashwinikumaro! On hearing our glorious praises, you come to earth from space and drink the squeezed somras in the yagna of the Kanvagotriya sages. 
O Indra! You hold a thunderbolt in your hand. Your horses live under you in all ways. The place to sit in your chariot is the best. You come from heaven by beautiful path. We increase your power of sompan. (2)
The earth remained firmly stable. Thousands of medicines grown in the crematorium, that is, herbs, should be dependent on you, dripping for you. For this dead man, all the donations hold the happiness-giving earth for the construction of the house. They should become protectors in the shamshan country. (51)
O men! You don't know the power of Vishwamitra's mantras. Sitting in silence with the greed of the destruction of penance, you are taking me like an animal. The omniscient fool does not laugh, nor is the donkey brought before the horse. 
"Who gave birth to this child and who sent this chariot here?" Who will tell me today how to return it with a sermon? 
O sad people! I let your conflicting hearts agree on one subject. I also make your deeds and resolutions a form. Earlier, you were all going to act against each other. I make you all equal-minded. (1)
Let agni, famous as messengers of the gods in many places, declare us innocent everywhere. Let the earth, the sky, the water, the sun and the vast sky full of constellations hear our praises. 
Barun Dev and Mitra Dev are friends of the world. May they please protect us with all their defence tools to the best of their ability. May these gods bless us with the best of wealth. (46)
Diseases should attract the minds of our enemies. Take their organs. Chew the picture of enemies mercilessly. Mourning in their hearts. With grief, the enemies should be immersed in deep darkness. (44)
Become the best protector, rich and omniscient Indra to bring happiness through his means of protection. Indra should hinder the enemies and make us fearless. Let us be masters of the best force. 
O goddess of the almighty Saraswati! Protect us in sagraam and give us wealth like the sun. 
O agni! To tell the devas about the hymns composed in the latest Gayatri verses and the havi present in this yajna. 
Those, who are alike to friend and foe, equipoised in honor and dishonor, cold and heat, joy and sorrow, and are free from all unfavorable association; those who take praise and reproach alike, who are given to silent contemplation, content with what comes their way, without attachment to the place of residence, whose intellect is firmly fixed in me, and who are full of devotion to me, such persons are very dear to me.
My brothers and nephews who are hostile to me should be distressed by the effect of this gem made of varan tree. They should get the painful dust and enter the dense darkness. (9)
Drugs attack the disease just as thieves attack the enclosure of cows. Medicines destroy all diseases and disorders of the body. (84)
O son of man, Vishwamana Rishi! Praise the tenth soul of human beings, the praiseworthy, the best, the learned and the worthy of greetings again and again. 
The somras that see everyone in the path of the yajna has been drunk. Indra's mind has been prepared by the Som Ritvijs to draw towards him. May Indra, the enemy, be pleased with our praises, wearing a great body and a great body. 
 This friend! Sage Jamdagni praises you. You come to the place of sacrifice, sit down. You accept the somers we have prepared. Please increase the karma fruit of our yajna. 
May the sky protect you with gold. May silver protect you from the middle world. May the earth protect you. These three gods are received by the cities. (9)
Do not abandon your body while remaining disease-free and not harming you, the bones that extend behind the anus and support the intestines. (17)
O Ashchini Kumaro! You come as our protector. Meet us while you protect our house. May you receive us as our sons, grandsons, etc. and meet us as protectors of the world. (1)
O Shobhan Yajnasuti being performed, the famous and inflammable agni with the famous glow going around! You sit with stunning flames. 
May the sages who compose the eight verses get this sacrifice well. (5)
O God of Fire! You are extremely acceleration. You are a wealthy senior. You were born in heaven. Space is your navel site. Earth is your vagina. Please be installed on earth. (12)
O Ashwinikumaro! When Divodas praised you by giving you food in the form of havan, you went to his house. At that time the chariot serving you took food. There were horses and crocodiles attached to it. 
This is the hymn! Praise the learned and famous Indra. Both of his enemies are going to go to the house of the horse-bearer host. 
The power of Tvashta Dev Indra Dev and the mature wealth should be held. Be worshiped with fame. Rain in the yajna and give strength. God should be like the same mind. Satisfy the famous gods of yajna. (44)
As soon as He was born, Shatrattu Indra asked his mother, "Who is angry and famous?" 
O God! The person who goes to his house to create a painful act through mantras and medicines. Just as the calf is reared behind the cow, so it should go near the man who performs the act. (2)
While being squeezed, the seer of all, the Mon Sun who knows all, as well as all the bright things glow. 
By fulfilling their duties, born of their innate qualities, human beings can attain perfection. Now hear from me how one can become perfect by discharging one’s prescribed duties.
Many people have seen Varuna. Just as the cows go towards the goshala, so my never-to-be-back ideology moves towards Varuna. 
 O hosts! Yajna represents Devlok. You worship these sacrifices. Through these yajnas, the hosts receive and hold divine personalities. Agni plays the role of mediator to bring our wives to the gods. 
This is a desire-filled aschinikumaro! This praise and this voice is for you. You accept this adornment. May all these yajnakarmas be received by you while wishing you. Oh, God! Protect us forever by means of welfare. 
Inder has brightened the sun and expanded the sky and the earth with his glory. These Indras have taken all the Bhuvanas in his shelter. These somers are executed for Indra. (4)
We are your sons. May the immortal gods please listen to our speeches and be welfare towards us. (77)
The Dadhidra Dev, who walks, is a sustenance, an apostle of cows and who is willing to serve, may wish for food during the desired usaal. May the god, who walks quickly, walks truthfully, and leaps and jumps, create food, strength, and heaven. 
Let the anger of our enemy be calmed and his contempt be destroyed. The warheads taunted by it fail. The arms of our enemies should be unable to lift the armament. O destroyer Indra! You turn away the force of those enemies. After this, bring the wealth of those enemies to us. (1)
Large streams of mon are created. The soms consisting of cow's milk, curd etc. enter the dronakalshas. The skilled and all-knowing Som in the samagana goes into the characters while singing the sammantras, just as the lustful man goes to his friend's wife. 
The Supreme Lord said: O Parth, when one discards all selfish desires and cravings of the senses that torment the mind, and becomes satisfied in the realization of the self, such a person is said to be transcendentally situated.
 O Indra! You destroy the army of the unfriendly. You are rich and rich. Please you and Agni together to consume the army of enemies. 
The weapons of these enemies cannot rise. Their hands should not be able to shoot arrows. Pierce our arrows to the heartlands of these highly fearful enemies. (20)
That Jagdishwar prana should follow me because he is always moving in the form of the sun without laziness, being knowledgeable and omnipresent. (24)
O God! You are powerful. You make us powerful too. We are eternal with your light. Let us see from your light for a long time. (19)
O Indra! Give us the wealth consumed by thousands of human beings and the armies of chariots. (14)
O agni! You are bright and rich. By your grace, the host attains the age of a hundred years. You are Ayushmann. Please make us Ayushman too. You are powerful. Please make us powerful too. You are indomitable. Please keep us published for a hundred years, including the parish. You are fantastic. Please keep us in your shelter for welfare. (18)
O Ashwinikumaro! You took Bhujyu, who was drowning in the sea, to your home in a boat that runs on a hundred poles. The sea was unfazed, apart from the land, inferior to the hand-holding branch, etc., in which you performed this feat. 
Those who benefit all beings, the doers of the world and give happiness to all, protect us in the Soma Yagya called Agni Prabhasawan. May the agni god, who purifies everyone, establish us in wealth as a result of yajna. By the grace of Agni Dev, we should become food with our sons, grandsons etc. (1)
O Indra with more wealth! For the accomplishment of wealth, give us the inspiration of karma in the form of yagya. May we be industrialists and those of fame. 
O friend and Varun Dev! In your yajna this pujaform has been praised. Accept it and destroy all our sufferings and protect us forever through your means of well-being. 
Hey Ritvijo! Praise your friend and Varun with a voice that spreads far and wide. O mahabali friend and Varun! Come to this huge yagna. 
 O Mon! You have been desired by the one who fulfills the wish and the gods. We also want you. Filter with a sieve made of hair. You take the form of a joyful stream and give protection. 
O Rudra, who wields weapons in the form of disease! Hello to you. Salutations to your arrow mounted on the bow. Salutations to your arrow while being released from the bow. Salutations to your arrow falling on the target. (3)
O soldiers! Be happy with the bravery of this brave king with more strength and ultimate opulence and be ready to fight for it. O Maruto! Be pleased with the bravery of Indra, who conquers the villages and the cows of the enemies and holds a thunderbolt in his hand. Indra is the conqueror of enemies, jaisheel and the one who commits violence against enemies with his own strength. (3)
O sacrificial friend and Varuna! Just as the mind is first engaged in a work, so in the same way, hosts worship you with the gharitadi havans first of all in the yajnas. They praise you well in a fit of attachment. You come to the yajna with happiness. 
 O Indra! You are a hundreds of deeds and extraordinary. You make us strong. Please give us glory and brave sons. 
That supreme man is the brother of all. He is the Creator, The Giver of all, the Giver of shelter, and the Knower of all the worlds and peoples. In the third dham there, immortal gods roam happily. (10)
Indra drinks this somras and protects us and the gods specially. O Indra with shobhan karma! Give us food and the ultimate age to perform yajna. This somras we have squeezed for the yagna. 
At the time when pure agnis are illuminated by their immense grace and come out of the wood like a sharp furrow, at that time, the commenas, the ones of adornment, pavak and matarupa become worthy of the agni yajna produced by two aranis. 
The directions that Indra has set for the daily movement of the sun, the sun never violates them. When the sun has finished its path, he leaves the horses from the chariot, but this is also indra's job. 
O agni! Just as the Son increases his parents with wealth, so you always expand both Diva-Prithvivi. O very young agni! You go by targeting your desireful people. O son of power, agni! Bring the gods to this yagna. 
 O Indra! We invite you to the yagna and the brave devotees to the struggle. We call on you for money. 
The earth and the sky, with the motion and the steps, hold the moving and phased beings as a womb. Just as a child lives in the lap of the parents, so they keep it all. O earth and sky! Save us from the great sin. 
Who has become the glorious ruler of this world in a moment by his life, who is the God of two steps and four steps, for which other god should we make a law of glory besides that god? (11)
By the grace of Savita Dev, we receive Ashwini Kumar and Pusha Dev with both arms. Agni and Som perform yajna for the satisfaction of God. Follow medicines and water purity. Mother should give permission (for yajna work). Give permission to the father (for the yagna work). Brothers give permission (for yajna work). Grant friend permission (for yajna work). We perform yajna for the satisfaction of agni. We perform yajna for the satisfaction of Soma. (9)
The bull's anus was part of Siniwali and the kalash held was part of Som. All the gods gathered and imagined the bull in this way. (15)
May the mantras containing the squeezed soma, stotras and shanas, the means of crushing somalatha, the stones and the yajna bless us. May groups of yupas give us happiness. May the herbs, which are used in the making of charu and purodas, and produced by excess, do our welfare. May the altar of yajna give us happiness. (7)
The unique Indra alone destroyed the armaments of the warriors, which were as fast as the deer, by his power. At that time, a second strong demon arose from Vritra's body. 
O Indra with strong horses! You come by your fortified and similar horses. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to Duloka. 
That virat reversed and he went near other people. Others called on him and said, "O Tiroda, come." (9)
 O Indra! You are going to wear thunderbolts. Even in exchange for a lot of money, I can't leave you. You can't be sold even for a thousand. You cannot be sold even in exchange for immense money. 
I call upon everyone, the one who receives wealth, the sakha, the encourages the hymns and the one who is called by mantras. 
 O Mon! You are powerful, very powerful. Serving you is also powerful. Your juice and you yourself are also strong. 
O chief Mon! Listen to our praises and shower it with the means of worshipful defense and bear fruit according to our praises. 
Hey Varun! Willing to see you, I ask that sin. I have gone to scholars to ask a variety of questions. All the scholars have said the same thing to me that Varun is angry with you. 
May we receive the welfare grace and charity of the gods who love their hosts. Let us get their friendship, they increase our age. 
O Indra! The velocity of your thunderbolt is the same as that of the mind. You have destroyed the mighty vritra with your love and destroyed enemy cities that no one has been able to destroy till date. (6)
O God! You are pure, the animals of space and are revered on the sacrificial altar. You are a guest-like respected and leadership leader, prestigious in debt, a water producer. You are endowed with vast truth force. (24)
The straight-flying shyen bird happened to the gods while bringing the mon from a distant journey and had brought the famous som, who was drunk, firmly. 
O son of strength and scholar Indra! Come before my praise words with all of you gods soon. Agni is the tongue of the gods who touch the yajna and who made Manu stronger than the asuras for the sake of shatrunash. 
The famous agni everywhere treats all human beings as mothers. Everyone prays for agni for the sake of holding and seeing. At the time of grinding, the agni cooks all the grains and in various forms, it goes close to all beings themselves. 
The swadhakkar who knows this eats food from Annad. (14)
O aschinikumaro! Bring us money including sons, servants, etc., through your chariots running in the three lokas. You listen to our praise. We call you for your protection. Make our progress and give us strength in the struggle. 
Hey Mon! Our and other people's actions are of different kinds. The carpenter wants to cut wood, the physician wants to cure the disease and the Brahmin wants the host to squeeze the somras. Hey Mon! You shed the juice for Indra. 
You are a poet and patient. For the good mind of the gods, you plough the plough with a pair of bulls. (67)
We beg for protection from the Kshatriya jati and well-wishing Adityas to get the money that is wanted. 
Acharya is death, Varuna, Som, herbs, crops and water. Acharya's followers of Varuna were watery clouds. Those clouds have held water for the rain within themselves. (14)
I regard them to be perfect yogis who see the true equality of all living beings and respond to the joys and sorrows of others as if they were their own.
 Those who want to kill us with deceit with faith, may the Gods be pleased to destroy all those cunning. The mantras of the Vedas are the armor of our place. May they please give us happiness. 
 O agni! You are the sustainer of the hosts. When satisfied and happy with the wives, you remove all the sufferings of humans as long as you stay in their homes. This thing is world famous. 
The powerful dice touch the adulterous wife of the gambler whose wealth is looked at with greed by others. The gambler's parents, fathers, and brothers say to the borrowers, "We don't know this. Tie it up and take it." 
You are a Giriwasi. You have our future in your hands. You do our welfare with your welfare power. Don't do violence. Don't do violence against the world and human beings. (3)
O Indra and Air! You come to this yagna to get close to the host who gives the havya by a more powerful chariot. 
I have received the same gem with all the personalities, which Jupiter had tied in the hands of the gods, which destroyed the asuras. (28)
O child eating food! May the wheat and barley fixed for your food be pleasant and body-enhancing for you. After use, these wheat and barley should not especially afflict your body and redeem you from sin. (18)
O leader and worker Aschinikumaro! You took out the sage Rebh rishi, who was drowned in the water of the well by the dreaded bandits, and cured his disabled body with your medicines like a horse. Your predestined works are not yet out of date. 
There is a sea like ghee. Sweet waves are rising in it. These waves become one with agni. The secret name of ghee is the tongue of the gods. The secret name is the navel of nectar. (89)
 O Mon! You are rich, worthy of worship, holy, very powerful and protector. Please fill this vessel like the sea. 
Yama, who has kshatriya-related power in the deities, should take some part of our havya. Somewhere we have encroached upon the work that is capable of pleasing Yama, so there is a agni that invokes the gods. They will remove our crime. We have the same amount of praise. Through that we can satisfy the agni and get rid of yama's crime. (33)
 Many gods are revered in the yajna place. They wish to do countless work wisely in that yajna site. 
Yog is difficult to attain for one whose mind is unbridled. However, those who have learnt to control the mind, and who strive earnestly by the proper means, can attain perfection in Yog. This is my opinion.
May Indra, the protector and the one with wealth, give us happiness through his defense means. May this powerful Indra remove our fear by killing our enemies. May we be blessed with good and effective wealth. (6)
O Jupiter! Children first know the name of the substance. This is the first ladder of their language. The divine Vedic knowledge of children remains hidden in the them. That knowledge is manifested by the grace of Saraswati. 
Hey Ritvijo! Purify our mon, the most beloved and extremely sweet of the gods, on dashapavitra for the indradi devas. 
O Indra! You protect our enemy, the one who leads in wars, the attendants, and the chariot that desires all kinds of wealth in war. 
Hey Mon! You fall down as the juice for the consumption of Indra, who had ended the ninety-nine cities of the Shroos in the struggles. 
O radiant Mon! You, pleased with the praises, pour into the wide dronakalash, bringing us the Vedic routes and the revered riches with pleasure. You kill the demons with iron ordnances and go with the streams on the dashapavitra made of high and sheep's hair. 
The hosts who resolve to squeeze the Somras for indra's sake, neither a few nor too many enemies can win them. Aditi give them happiness. Hosts who wish for adornment and praise are dear to Indra. Hosts who are well approaching and squeezing somers are dear to Indra. 
I feed the nectar-like force of herbs to the patient man. I treat it in such a way that this patient man attains the age of 100 years. (22)
The leading usha, the doers of shobhan karma, the somras, the squeezing the somras and providing all the food for the host who gives the south to the ritwijas, fill the countries far and wide with their use, like the armed warriors. 
Salutations to the heart. Salutations to Vamana. Salutations to the giant. Salutations to those of the year. Salutations to the old. Salutations for the charming youth. Salutations for the pioneer. Salutations to the first. (30)
O Indra! Sitting in a chariot with tears named Hari, you should go towards the enemy army, wearing your thunderbolt through the flat path. Destroy the enemies by coming from the front and behind and running away from the war. Make their minds, who are determined to destroy us, completely disorder. (4)
May Indra, who gives us great food, give us the majority money and saves all, come before us and give us money. 
 O Mon! You are pure, pure and sweet. You are going to make the gods happy. You have been called the son of gods. 
 O Mon! You are like sages with a mind and a quality like them. You are going to make Indra, the king of the third dham, more stunning. You are the title of poet and sahasrakarma. 
Aditya Devgan has been worshiped with seventeen hymns and rainy season. With vairup verses and uj, we establish havi for Indra Dev. May Lord Indra bless us with strength and life. (25)
You serve it and spread it and add ghee to it. O Gods! Looking at the milk drinker, the milch cows look at the calf drinking milk and run towards it, in the same way, you should say words towards this ready odan. (37)
O you who are very powerful, defeaters of the violent, doers of great deeds and gentlemen, Indra! We call you again and again like a chariot to get safety and happiness. 
O Father! This substance given to you should be self-sufficient. (76)
Those who are always awake in the god yajnashala, the riches wish for them. The hymns are received only by the waking God, and To the waking God, Som said, "I am yours, I will be with you in your appointed place." 
 The host has plenty of samidhas, abundant weapons, countless prayers for the gods. Indra is a friend of these hosts and he is always young. 
O Indra! By your grace we wish to follow us. Fools should not violence you without knowing the way to protect you. Don't accept the service of those who hate Brahmins. (2)
O death mongers! Take these enemy soldiers. This is yamadoot! Destroy these. Just as you break straws, so kill more than these thousands of demons. (11)
O Maruto! You are a revolutionary and increase the milk of cows, the juice of herbs and the velocity of horses. May they be happy for us and save us from sin. (3)
Hey Aditya Devo! You know how to remove sins. Just as birds spread wings over their children, so do you give us happiness. Your defenses are hassle-free and benign. 
O Lord of horses named Hari and Indra with more wealth! The mon who is well squeezed and intoxicated according to you and the one by which you kill the demons, let the Somras please you. 
O Indra! We will be new to protect you. O thunderbolt Indra! At first we didn't know you everywhere, but at this time we know. 
O Manu! You, who conquer, follow us in this struggle by becoming the teller of ancient measures of victory like Indra. O bearable manu! We are uttering eulogy praises. We know the place from which you appear, the place of nectar stream. (5)
Just as the reproductive part of the jar is not worthy of female intercourse and proves to be useless near the woman, in the same way, the jar should become free from sexual intercourse in women. The jar which used to disturb the woman when called for sexual intercourse, the huge reproductive organ of that jar should be shortened and the reproductive organ raised above it should bend down. (3)
O Indra and Agni! Come on your horses, which are expressed by many and are born to the hosts who give greetings. 
 O agni! You are omnipresent. We worship you. Horses and cows in whose shelter we are also taking the hosts in your shelter. We are always the ones who follow the rules and give courage. You donate food to us. We worship you. 
This Saraswati breaks the peaks of the mountains of the shore by its forces and great waves in such a way that, just as the one who digs the root of the lotus scatters the mud, I serve to protect myself through my praises and yajnakarmas of the Saraswati, who destroys the distant tree. 
O air! Let the chariots with horses called Nyut be brought along with you to Indra in the yagna to protect us, to eat the food we have taken and to accept other humanities. Drink the sweetest somras of both of you. It is advisable to do your sohapana before other gods. You and Indra bring us a pleasing wealth. 
The sound of the house is sounding the war. The skin of the cowher tied on the hands is also the word. Yellow is doing the word bowdry. Speak praise at this time by targeting Indra. 
The soma that Indra, Marut, Aryama and Bhaga drink and by which we lead our friends, Varuna and Indra, to protect ourselves, are the same som squeezes. 
Just as Vritrasura, the son of Tvashta, stops the movement of the waters of these clouds that nourish the stable and movable world, O patient! I treat your tuberculosis in the same way with the help of Vaishvanar agni. (3)
O God of Agni! You are going to destroy the vampires who eat meat, so give me the power to destroy the vampires. This havan is well done. (4)
O Mother of gods and Usha competing with Aditi! You become excited, memoranda of yajna and gaining importance, publishing and praising our hymns. O choice usha! Make us famous in the world. 
O agni! Forgive the mistake that We have made of your yajna. Forgive this mistake, except for your service in the form of agnihotra, which has gone on the distant path. You are easily attained by the humans who do somyag. You are like their father, the most meditative and the one who completes the yajna. You let them see directly. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! No one can stop you from the money you give to the havyagar host. Listen to me the hymn of the sage High, being very charitable and inspiring of wealth. 
 Agni is very welfare. May they be pleased to help us away from sins 
The earth and the sky are fixed in their place to protect the world. Prajapati has worn them in the baseless state. Fearing the fear of falling down, they cried Prajapati, who was present between the earth and the sky, so the name of both of them was Rodsi. The Prajapati whose path in the sky forms the rain water, we worship those Prajapatis through Havi. (3)
The serviceable and the leader of the yagnakarma, they destroy the pride of any enemy by moving quickly, just as the fast-flowing water uproots the trees. 
Those who want to come close to the bandit couple could not get them. We should cross this inaccessible path easily and our enemies fall into misery. (11)
He who knows the season named Naidagh i.e. Summer says- "This is the season called Naidagh, which is the form of Panchaudan. One who donates the light-filled aj from dakshina as panchodan takes away the opulence of unpleasant shanrus and bandhavas." (31)
O horse-giving and far-reaching agni! We invoke you with praises for the welfare of the rich. His chariot moved forward in battle, not being killed by enemies. 
 O Indra! You are going to cry 
O scion of Bharat, all created beings are unmanifest before birth, manifest in life, and again unmanifest on death. So why grieve?
I call the agni in the ocean as the birth of the sun and the part of a god named Bhaga. 
O Rich Indra! Those who give you dear riches, encourage them to you in battle. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! May we overcome sins, including your stoes, by your grace. 
 O hosts! We have already been giving somras to Vajradhari Indra. Even today, we should give them this somras. May they please come to our yajna to listen to sompan and stotra. 
Indra, who is rich in wealth, is always happy and sings to the hosts. O Indra! Come in three morning, midday and evening and drink somras. (2)
Repeatedly wording around the place of residence. (12)
 Som is intelligent. They feed cows with milk. The milk of cows is added to somerus. Just as people cover themselves with clothes, cows cover the sompatra 
O agni! Drive away the demon who disrupts the yagna. O very young agni! You are ignited by the samididhas and kill the monster. O agni that sees humans! You subdue the monster of your swiftness. 
Here the young woman lives in a place surrounded by four directions. (5)
Anna has protected Atri, Bharadwaj, Gavisthira, Kanva and Tarshadsu in the war. Priest Vasishtha calls agni for happiness. 
O sacrifice! Please look at us with friendship. O agni! Please show us our path. Please protect us from the fiercest enemies and the fiercest army. Please feed us. Nothing of ours is hidden from you. Our greetings to you. You should not do any kind of violence. (34)
O God of Agni! Be overwhelmed by the glow you have to burn those who hate us or those we hate. (3)
Oh, my friends! You and I both have special knowledge. We drink the beautified and forcefully smelling mon in front of us. We serve the forcer mon. 
O you with powerful warriors and a more wealthy Indra! You sit on your awesome chariot for the great rann. O Indra, the best-of-the-way! You come before us to protect us. O famous Indra! Make us famous rather than other subjects. 
O thousand knots of medicine! You have transgressed the three heavens and you have transgressed these three earths. I wrap through you the tongue of him who has ill-will towards me and binds his words. (4)
Who put the skin cloth on this man's body and which god created his age? Which god provided the force for this man and who gave it momentum? (15)
I perform havan in manas yagya to the senses like eyes etc. This yajna has been expanded by Vishwakarma Dev. May the god with the best heart receive this Manas Yagya. (5)
I tell the agni god all the worldly debts and the debt of not fulfilling the promise made to the gods. Agni Dev knows how to loosen these cosmic and divine debt traps. (2)
O Saraswati! Let's take us to famous riches. Don't demote us. Don't cause us pain by water. Accept our friendly deeds and admissions. Let us not go from you to the forests or to the bad places. 
Before the ushas who live in the bright sky, somers receive the light of the sun with strange light. This water-raining mon meets the Maruts and holds heaven with the help of pillars strong by the Great Force. 
Usha was born in space and spread the light and she came to express her glory with her brightness. Usha removed the unpleasant darkness of everyone and revealed the most important destinations for the behavior of beings. 
Knowing, the great and wide agni generated, protect me the sage Trinit. The hosts who ask for water from agni through their mouths worship the agni with tanmaya. 
He got up and walked towards south. (9)
Hey Mon! Send great glory to us, give permanent money to the wise hosts and give food to the psalms. 
O agni! These are the sweetest praise sentences for you. May these praises bring happiness in your heart. Just as great rivers make the ocean complete, so may these praises make you powerful. 
I praise Indra, the king of the people, who walks by the chariot, who walks uninterrupted in transit, who has wired all armies, the eldest and the vrithrahuta. 
The gods had discovered the deeds of the fledgling fire. This search was done in all four directions. Indra and other gods had come to the earth to find fire, so the earth had become equal to heaven. There was an increase in the water to hide the fire that was born due to the Yagya, which was born from the womb of water and illuminated by the praises of the Ritvijas. 
Just as children make a hue and cry while playing, pushing their mothers, so do these revered stones in the yagna while squeezing somras. This stotao! Praise the stones that squeeze the somras. Make words while turning stones. 
Indra, who is pleased with us, who enjoys us, attains prosperity, is strong and an enemy like the sun, and increases power, and listens to our praises and comes here in the yagna to protect us. 
 Indra is the master of all the things and wealth of the earth. They give all kinds of money to the donor. When praised well, they give enough money. 
O Hota! Praise Indra. He is the best of the warriors who fight in front, with infinite power, the brave, rich, steady on a chariot, the bearer of the thunderbolt and the destroyers of the clouds. 
Varun, friends and Aryama will definitely protect us. Take us forward, overcome sins and save us from the enemy. 
This som of ours is received like intoxicating ghee to the godly flower with the welfare crown. They give commissible women. 
Know that all living beings are manifested by these two energies of mine. I am the source of the entire creation, and into me it again dissolves.
Paddy, paddy lapsi, sattu etc., watery milk and curd etc. are the form of Som. Havi, Ikshu (sugarcane) etc., anna havi and honey etc. are the form of Som. (21)
Those living in humans, sitting in the lap of space as electricity, revered by virtues and the knower of space become hosts as soon as agni is produced. The yajnadharankars are located on the agni altar. O Vatsapri! Let those agnis give you food and money for your attendant and be body protectors. 
May we be pleased with the riches by praising both of you. Be satisfied with the grass sung by the devas and singing. Indra and Varun! Give us violence-free money, both of you who destroy the world. 
Just as one sun illumines the entire solar system, so does the individual soul illumine the entire body (with consciousness).
O Indra! You go towards Someras as soon as you appear. You conquered the battle and gave money to the gods. You travel in vast space. This space speaks of your wish. (3)
I consider Indrani to be extremely fortunate. The reason for this is the immortality of their husbands. Indrani's husband is not even old. The husbands of the other women are about to die. (11)
The mantra seer, while searching for his omnipotent Brahm Bhav, says that I have separated the vast earth and the sky. I have given birth to seven seasons. Seven seasons mean six seasons like spring and one more month. I speak the famous sentences of the world in the form of truth and untruth. I have received divine speech. (2)
O Indra! Give the cow, horse, etc. that you strengthen to the host who prepares someras and gives dakshina, do not give it to enemies like wives. (3)
O aschinikumaro! You took the well near sage Gautama. His origin was turned up and down the door. Out of it, water had started to come out for the drinking of the harbing and tolerant Gautama. 
O Indra! May we receive the dakshina that fulfills the wish of the praiseor with your riches. O psalmist Indra! Don't give that dakshina to anyone else except us. We will get the best son-chotradi and praise you enough in this yajna. 
O Maruto! Bring us near to glory and be pleased with our praises, and remove us from sin. O Yagyapatra Maruto! You accept our given gesture. We become the owners of diverse properties. 
They say, “The world is without absolute truth, without any basis (for moral order), and without a God (who has created or is controlling it). It is created from the combination of the two sexes, and has no purpose other than sexual gratification.”
God is the lord of the food grains and the friend of confirmatory things. The worship, unbeatable by the enemies, spontaneously shakes his beard by drinking the somras of his beloved host. 
O God of Agni! In this peace deed, tell the demon who does the work of hurting our body that he is worthy of being attacked by you. O more young Agni God, touch that sinner with your burning flame. O God of Agni! You see the pious and sinners as witnesses. You subdue this sinner through your vision. (8)
The presiding deity is part of the agni god. You are in the hegemony of initiation. Brahmins establish you from trivrita stome left over from death from trivrita stome. Indra is part of Dev. They are under the possession of Vishnu. The Kshatriyas were protected from the death of Panchdas Stoma. We set you up from Panchadash Stom. You are part of the inspector god of human beings. You are in the hegemony of dhata. Avoid death by Vaishya Saptadash Stoma. We establish you from Saptadash Stom. You are part of friend Dev. You are under the suzerainty of Varun Dev. The rain related to heaven was protected from Ekvinsh Stom, the air related to heaven was protected from Ekvinsh Stom. Let's set you up from OneVinsh Stom. (24)
Just as bees place honey on honey, so Ashwinikumar make me dominated, stunning, strong and energetic. (17)
O Indra! The kind of hymns you have promoted yourself, we intelligently compose the same kind of hymns. O Sompanaker Indra! When the somras are gone, we speak for you a very pleasant, beautiful and soulful hymn. 
 O Indra! You're a somers drinker. Your horses have good hair and strong limbs on the neck. You plough those horses in the chariot and come to the yagna to hear our praise. 
O inspiring and glorious Mon of all! You must make me sinless in all respects with your holy swiftness and your act of easing— both of these. 
O ukhaal and musal! Both of you are the ones who give all kinds of means of yajna and the great food. Just as both of Indra's horses make a sound while chewing their food chana, etc., in the same way you also strike each other with a tul sound. 
O land! You could achieve the opulence of the water form due to the contact of the watery sun. May we also become rich with your water form opulence. O unspoken earth! You crush the clouds and consume pure water and consume water through the rays of the sun. (20)
O glorious Indra in heaven! Deliver the sobnothwater within the motionless cloud in all directions for the benefit of all you beings. O Indra, who does good deeds! You become the protector of beings, don't do their violence. You are beyond the asuri maya, so your name is in satyaloka. 
We perform yajna and bow down in ushakal. We carry out sacred activities in ushakal. Just as the asavanavati chariots are moving, may God bless us to make us old and with superior wealth. (39)
Vishwakarma's eyes, mouth, arm and legs are spread all over. The God alone made the dyava and the land by moving well with his arms and steps. 
Only the ignorant speak of sānkhya (renunciation of actions, or karm sanyās) and karm yog (work in devotion) as different. Those who are truly learned say that by applying ourselves to any one of these paths, we can achieve the results of both.
O aschinikumaro who knows the sun! Come to us from heaven and space. These are the ashinikumaros who gave the best knowledge to the parrot! Come with wisdom. O Ashwinikumaro who hears the call! Come up with the psalms. 
O agni! You are omniscient. You make us equal-minded. You make us equal-minded. You make us with equal reverence. Don't indulge in violence in yagna. You are a yajnapati. Please be kind to be welfare towards us today. (60)
O lord of food, Usho! Give us such strange wealth that we can follow our sons and grandsons. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Come to the house devoid of the violence of the enemies and drink somras for krishna, the brahmin who praises him. 
This is Ashwinikumaro with full-fledged wealth! Add donkeys to your chariot with firm limbs to drink the melodious somras. 
Even before the origin of agni etc. gods, senses and senses were born. The worshiper who can know those gods will preach Brahman directly. (3)
Savita Dev! You create light. In that light, Ashwini Dev increases medicines with his arms. Pusha Dev increases medicines with his hands. Medicines should be irrigated with the juice of medicines, they irrigate the world with their juice and get sweetness. They should be irrigated by sweet water flows. (21)
O Kumar! The kind of grain you eat hard and drink the coarsely ground grain like milk, which is comfortable to eat and which is difficult to eat, I make all these types of food poisonless. (19)
The sages who composed the kandas like Rohit etc. should receive this sacrifice well. (23)
There are many firm holder and pleasurable forms of the body-bearing Ritadev. The stotas desire more food than Ritadev. It is because of Ritadeva that the cows enter the yagna. 
The performer is said to be in the mode of goodness, when he or she is free from egotism and attachment, endowed with enthusiasm and determination, and equipoised in success and failure.
Swayammenambhudetya Bruyadvratya Kva Vatsirbratyodakam Vratya Tarpayantu Vratya Yata.. This kind of special wise person should give himself a seat to the house in which he is a guest and say- O Vratya! Where do you live? It's water. May the person of our house satisfy you. Whatever is dear to you, as it is in your control and as your work is, be the same. (1)
A performer in the mode of ignorance is one who is undisciplined, vulgar, stubborn, deceitful, slothful, despondent, and procrastinating.
I am covered with the shield of the mantra of the Sun in the form of Kashyapa and covered with the rays of truth and protection. Therefore, the weapons used by humans and gods to do my violence will not be able to affect me. (28)
O Indra! I inspire the voice of praise that enhances your praiseworthy strength. I embellish you for getting food. O Indra! You are going to walk ahead of human and divine subjects. (2)
O Maruto of the deer vehicles! The man you protect is fierce and strong. There is no barrier to the wealth of the host to whom the gods like Agni, Saraswati, etc., inspire the yagna. 
O Indra! The sky is your semen and water and mountains inspire you. The earth grows food through you. (2)
Neither of them is in knowledge—the one who thinks the soul can slay and the one who thinks the soul can be slain. For truly, the soul neither kills nor can it be killed.
The beautifully filled and beautifully decorated firefighters sat here, night and day with great delight. 
O Vishwavasu! Get away from the kanya 
Admired by the Angiragotrian sages, Indra had finished the work of the great cloud with his glory. He created many waters and infused force into the heavens as true. 
From the first two, then from one heart, Jupiter, who seeks light in the darkness, reveals the light, taking out the arrows in the cave in the form of a heart. (4)
The agni brought to the yajnashala by the ritvijas becomes praiseworthy in the yagnashala or sit as a grandson. 
Let rudra's armament forsake us. Rudra's sadistic huge spirit also stayed away from us. He is the desireary Rudra! Loosen the hard cord of your bow to the host and give happiness to our sons and grandsons. 
Vayu, Mana, Gandharva etc. have already ploughed seven to three i.e. twenty-seven horses with them. May they come forward (sooner) and increase our yajna. (7)
I am very great and i am sun-like in the sky. I've been to sompan several times. 
 O agni! You come. We collect hymns from the statute for you. Listen to our praise and others. Somers provide you with hikes. 
 O Indra! You are as arrogant as a bull, evil-destroyer, annoying to the varis, energetic and lazy. You alone are the heroes who defeat the entire enemy's army. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You are visible and powerful. You put our speech into good work. O Ashwinikumaro! You put our Manisha (intellect) into good work. (29)
O Indra! I praise you, so let all property come to me. You come to me in the Shobhan Yajna of Somras Wale. You are the master of wealth. You sat on these divided cushions. The characters of your Somras can't even touch the monster. 
O son of power, agni! Bring the gods again and again to this yagna today. I will always be present in your wealth. O agni! I will be shobhan son-grandson because of your protection. 
O Aschinikumaro who enjoys many yagnas! Today, whether you are in a distant heaven, whether in the reachable sky and whether in many places, you should come here from all places. 
O Indra! This mon go squeezed and sifted for you. You drink them. Drink the mon you make and choose for help and receive the item. 
 The host praises Soma with the mantras of RigVeda, Yajurveda and Samaveda. Praise to them is enlightening. She is going to wear the praise sacrifice. Just as bulls go to cows, so worshipers go to Soma to praise him with the desire for good happiness. 
Let us climb a well-guarded, elaborate, sinless, well-nourished, well-nourished, well-nourished, decay-free, strong-formed, well-intentioned, flawless and destruction-free duloki boat for welfare. 
Indra has made this king stable by getting the pole. Som and Brahmanaspati have blessed him. 
Hey Mon! Be holy to the great Indra. You are the ones who give indra good pleasure, unsensure and defeat the hinderers. You give me the money to the parrot. Diva- Protect us by giving the best money to the earth. 
O life and your air! You stay in his body, do not come out of his body in famine. Do not leave the hands, feet, etc. of this patient's body till old age. (6)
Salutations to the horned one. Salutations to Pashupati. Salutations to the furious. Salutations to Bhim. Salutations to the fore. Salutations to the thinker. Salutations to those who think far away. Salutations to the enemy. Salute to those engaged in the destruction of enemies. Salutations to the tree located in. Salutations to those with green hair and strings. (40)
At the time of hiding of the stars i.e. bathing done before Ushakaal and at the time of Ushakal, the cause of diseases should be removed due to the effect of daily activities. After this, our regional diseases like tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy etc. should be destroyed. (7)
O permission! Please approve of our wishes and benefit us. You increase our sacrifice and our age. You star us. (8)
O Mon! You were born on the mountain. You are squeezed to delight. Water increases the amount of you. Just as the shyen 
When the human-friendly Indra desperately aspired to kill the anti-human vritra, the thunderbolt of the workman Indra had repeatedly spoken. By drinking the squeezed som, Indra ended all the maya of the elusive vritra. 
Those who take refuge in this wisdom will be united with me. They will not be reborn at the time of creation nor destroyed at the time of dissolution.
Hey Ritvijo! You perform havan by doing the Jataveda, well-lit and in the blazing agni by enough awed. 
The men said, "O Sarma! Our cow-like property is protected by the mountains. It is derived from cows, horses and wealth. The protective assets protect this property. You have come to this place of ours in vain, adorned with the sound of cows." 
May our praises enhance Indra's heart-taker, Soma, in the same way that mothers with increased milk raise children. 
The four directions are the four horses of agni dev's chariot i.e. mules. The purodash of yajna is the sum of those mules and space is their abode. The arrow and the voice between the earth and the sky are the charioteers that drive that chariot. (22)
Those who worship ignorance enter deep darkness. Those who worship knowledge also enter deep darkness. (12)
O Rudra! It's part of you. Please accept it with your child Ambika. Good luck to you. O Rudra! This part is dedicated to your animal rat. (57)
 O Mon! You are bright and pure. You have been filtered and prepared to offer to the gods. You give us all the glory of the world. 
O Indra, performer of hundred yajnas! By drinking this Somras, you destroyed the enemies like Vritt etc. and protected your warriors in the battlefield. 
Rays of beautiful motion, knowing their duty, always carry a part of the water and the same sun has possessed me with immature intelligence, in which aditya reaches the mandala and protects the whole world patiently. 
O King! People should call upon you for state government. The four directions of the east and the fifth direction of the middle should become tejaswini for you. May you sit on the high throne of your country. After that, you should provide proper money to our servants while remaining undefeated by the enemies. (2)
O Kamini! Wish me my body, feet, eyes and thighs. You wish for a man who can satisfy you. Your beautiful eyes and hair disturb my mind. (1)
O Fire and Mon! Protect the yajnakarma of the host who serves both of you with a devotional mind to the gods, save the host from sin and give enough happiness to the person who is engaged in the work of yajna. 
O agni! You want to succeed the desire of the psalms, so you are content-minded. Some of the ritwijs you are friends with go to home and the rest sit around you. 
 O Mon! The host's ten fingers scrape you. Seven priests give you satisfaction. We Brahmins follow you. 
 O Indra! You are powerful. With pure Som prayers, reach your head, both arms and armpits. We want money from you. 
Sacrifice is offered for agni (gastritis) located in humans. Offerings are offered for the agni (badvagni) located in the waters. Sacrifice is offered for the agni located in Kush. (12)
O omniscient agni! Those who performed special yajna before you and who sat with swadha in the best and middle places and who had found happiness, consider their possessive qualities and complete their yajna first. After this complete the yajna to please the gods. 
O young man, agni! Whatever wood I wear for you, you accept them. 
The Sun God is a witness to the sky, earth and water. They are the vision power of all beings. They are the ones who climb the sky and the earth. (45)
O boy! Dyau is your father and the earth is your mother. May these two be unanimous and give you a long life, so that you can live for a hundred years by being safe from life and your air in the lap of the earth. (4)
O Maruto! Those that arise in space make your speed especially speed. O special sacrificial maruto! You raise the waters. O Maruto! Consume a portion of the yajna generated in the house given by the householders and with a thousand numbers. 
O learned messengers of yajna, those who know the works, well acquainted with the middle part of the earth and the sky, ancient, capable of overdoing a little lust, the great scholar and the messenger of the gods, agni! You climb the steps of heaven to give havi to the gods. 
Seated firmly on it, the yogi should strive to purify the mind by focusing it in meditation with one pointed concentration, controlling all thoughts and activities. He must hold the body, neck, and head firmly in a straight line, and gaze at the tip of the nose, without allowing the eyes to wander.
Salutations to those who are cruel sages i.e. prana, eyesight etc. Salutations are also to those who are real eyes between these souls and conscience. There is also a similar radiant and important greeting for Jupiter. O Vishwakarma, salutations to you, you protect us. (4)
The calamity cast on the Brahmin by the king ends his kingdom by becoming a demon with eight legs, four eyes, four ears, four chins, two faces and two tongues. (7)
Salutations to Yamraj. Hello to death. Salutations to the ancestors. They're going to take you. Those who know the method of passing the agni body have come for your welfare. I install you. (12)
O hatred-less maruto! You come to listen to the dynamic hymns of the devotees and the Avyamaruta. O Maruto who has attained the yagya with Vishnu! Just as the warrior drives away the enemies, so you remove the misdeeds hidden in our minds. 
The host should eat only after the guest has eaten. This fast is only for the sustenance of the yajna and the separation of the yajna. (8)
O you who have a good light, a bright and very young agni! Take the good person who has made the ghee pua for you today for you towards wealth and give happiness to that devasevak host. 
Amongst purifiers I am the wind, and amongst wielders of weapons I am Lord Ram. Of water creatures I am the crocodile, and of flowing rivers I am the Ganges.
Earth whose mother, sky whose father and ocean is the root, those herbs protect this man from this rajakshama disease caused by misfortune. (2)
O man wanting to! I empower your male sense like a bow-mounted cord with the effect of my mantra. For this reason, always attack your wife with a happy heart like a bull capable of conceiving. (7)
Please fathers to sanctify us. The fathers are gentle. May Pitamah bless us to sanctify us. May The Great Father bless us to sanctify us. Let us live purely for a hundred years, by the grace of Ashwini Devs, we may get full life. (37)
O God of Agni! You devour these monsters and vampires who see the faults of others. O agni of the dark path! You should also consume demons who behave against others. (2)
Indra kills hundreds and thousands of enemies by silencing the enemies who do various things from the word. We admire the purushartha of the Indra, who makes men stronger like the Father who increases the power of the Son. 
O deserters! Where is the new wealth of your people in the form of animals, shobhan dhan in the form of gems, mukta, etc., and the good fortune wealth in the form of yards, horses, etc.? 
The one who insults the one who knows and fasts in this way is the culprit of Vairup, Vairaj, Jal and King Varuna. (17)
O night! You cut off the legs of my shanru in such a way that it is not able to come again. Cut off his hands in such a way that he cannot embrace me. The thief who comes close to me. Grind him in such a way that he goes away from me. Let it go well. He should go from me and get shelter in the dry pillar. (10)
O Indra! You are the lord of the squeezed mon and the unquenched mon and the king of the grain. 
The spinachs of the agni world defeat the black night with their flames, producing the usha produced by the sun. The moving agnis shine especially while holding the sunlight up by their rays spreading in heaven. 
Brahmabal enters Jupiter and Kshatra Bal enters Indra. (4)
O agni! You are the one who sustains the vast and the vast. First of all, Atharva Rishi revealed you with Arani Manthan. He respectfully established you on the higher part of the world. (32)
The welfare agni served by The Bright Usha came. Agni, who destroys its enemies, goes to his sister Usha. The agni, located with its adornment wisdoms and bright radiances, erases the dark darkness by the brightness of its preventative white colour. 
Vishnu has made a full tour of heaven with jagati verses. They have destroyed those who hate us and those we hate. They have destroyed trishtup. Please finish those Gayatri verses from the earth. Such enemies have been removed from them. May we find heaven and may the light be full. (25)
The unmanned contraptional wheel with the same navel always rotates repeatedly. The five Ombudsmen and brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras, Nishads, five varnas, together these ten hold the vast earth. The ophthalmosphere is surrounded by clouds full of rain water. All beings hide in it. 
When the Somras are ready, all the people come together and praise Indra, the destroyer of the enemies and lord of the best wealths. 
Let the most bizarre Indra drink somras from our spoons and accept our great and glorious praises related to you. Accept the praiseworthy praise and the greetings in the yajna of the host who performs the deeds of Indradeva, who has a shobhan daan. 
May our head, mouth, hair and mouth be adorned. May our souls be kings, nectar and emperors. Let our eyes see everything. Let our ears be huge. (5)
The stotas who ask for food, the agni provides the same food. The agni called by the havan gives the hosts peace-giving and the happiness arising out of the consumption of subjects. Fire lives in the invocation of all gods. They kill all the enemies. 
Just as mothers hold a child, so so are the desires of the gods, the desire-givers, and the ones who are chosen by many, by the soma water. Just as a man goes to the woman, soma goes to his Sanskrit place and meets cow's milk-curd etc. in Dronakalash. 
 O agni! You are called for sompan in this excellent yajna. You come with the maruts 
O poet, the enemy,the loser and the eternal Indra! When we ask you for what is desired, let our mon please you by being as high as a bull's trunk. 
 Som is an enemy destroyer, powerful and a wealth giver. While being squeezed and removed, they enter the pitcher as fast as a horse. 
O you with great power, Maruto! You increase our wisdom by being unbelievable and violence. At the time when the lightning with your teeth illuminates the clouds while you are walking, it destroys the animals like a sword. 
This mare bounces well. (1)
O heroic Indra! You punish enemies and the wicked who refute. In the yajna, you give supreme opulence to the one who prepares someras for you. (2)
Bring money to the host who gives Indra Havi, the swami of humans and gods living in the three worlds. Give me the wealth of many forms on earth, inspire the praised Indra wealth in front of us, give it to us. (1)
Hey Mon! To give us food and wealth, you muster the air. Be holy, please the friend and worship the gods and the strength of the maruts. O praiseworthy Mon! You make Dyava-Prithvi drunk. 
Where do the ardhamas i.e. paksha and month go together with samvatsar? Where do these seasons and the substances related to the seasons go? Tell me about that God, what is He? (5)
O Hiranya! Men wearing three types of silver and iron gems! I appoint three heavens, three seas, three adityas, three bhuvanas, three airs and three heavens as your protectors. (4)
By divine grace comes the peace in which all sorrows end, and the intellect of such a person of tranquil mind soon becomes firmly established in God.
Savita Dev, please make us holy with both of you and both the saints. Please make us holy on all sides. (43)
May we rise. May we attain the truth, may our glory increase. May our knowledge increase and our glory spread. May our yajna be successful, may cattle be in our possession, may our progeny increase. May our people be brave. (1)
Varuna is the king of nations and the giver of rivers. Varuna's force is unhindered and goes everywhere. 
The host prepared somers. Goddess Saraswati made him full of great medicines. Vaidya Ashwinikumars wore him as a medicine. (57)
The brother should take succession from his real brother and the sister should not hate her real sister. All these should be of equal speed and of equal deeds and say welfare promises. (3)
In the Great War, the fierce force and mighty power of Indra, who challenges the enemies and the enemy, spreads everywhere. When someras please Indra with horses called Hari, at that time the earth and the sky are not able to cover any Indra. 
Action that is prompted by selfish desire, enacted with pride, and full of stress, is in the nature of passion.
Let the agnis that see the whole world one by one and collectively protect us from the enemies. 
O agni! You are the door of the gods, fasting and dominating. You protect all of us. (16)
O God of the universe! All of you increase for us the six divine powers of earth, sky, water, medicine, day and night. May you be happy that no one will despise or condemn us. We should not sin. (6)
To this, Agni said, "Ribhu.o, son of Sudhanva! Divide four parts of a spoon, and by giving this inspiration, the gods have sent me to you. I'm here to tell you what they say. If you speak to me, you will receive a share with the gods." 
Indra in earth, in this world or in heaven, means that wherever we are, we wish to call him from there. (6)
O cupinjal bird! When you say words, inform us of welfare and wish for our consent while remaining silent. You say the same words as the curvy baje while flying. We will receive shobhan son-grandson and speak many praises in this yajna. 
O Indra! Protect our bodies with the same forces of yours that plague and kill enemies. (2)
O Chandra Dev! Grieve those who hate us or those we hate through your power to grieve others. (4)
At best, the somras, created by the ancestors, receiving Indra and filtering in the characters, is sacred in the kalash for the moving Indra everywhere. 
Oh my god! Garuda was the first to arise. You were in the form of pitta dosha in their body. Asuri Maya fought against Garuda and conquered the pitta and gave the form of medicine to the bile obtained due to victory. (1)
Vrisakapi said, "O mother who gives beautiful benefits! Just like you have said that your thighs, head, etc., will become the same type of limbs. Please the Father by speaking a word as dear as a cuckoo. Indra is the best." 
May Devjan please make us pure. May they be pleased to sanctify our intellects with their heart. Please make agni holy to all beings. May the omniscient God please make us pure. (39)
Plough the land well with plow. Farmers should go comfortably with bulls. O wind! O sun! Please be with Havi. You irrigate the earth with water. You grow drugs. May you fill the earth with the best fruits. (69)
Jupiter saw the sweet cows locked in the mountain in such a way that fish are seen in a little water. Just as the pot of somras is taken out of the wood of the tree, the spoon of the somras is extracted, so jupiter pulled out the cows from the mountain. 
The Supreme Divine Personality is greater than all that exists. Although he is all-pervading and all living beings are situated in him, yet he can be known only through devotion.
The one who is born first, stayed in Hiranyagarbha, who is the only guardian of the generations born, who holds the earth and heaven, for which god should you decide for which god. (10)
O glorious agni! Your pure smoke expands into space and moves as a cloud. O Holy One of agni! You are as bright as the sun when you hear praises. 
Soothing agnis are ignited in the morning. The divine praises of the meritorious hymns are sung. O Charioteeswami Aschinikumaro! You come before me in this yajna and elaborate the yajna well. 
O Indra! May your wishers bring you here to drink the intoxicating som who automatically joins the chariot, who carries the desireful chariot, the loosely reined, the one who comes in front of us, the ones who carry the vajra, the horse that is well connected in the chariot. 
At that time there was neither death nor nectar. There was no night, nor the knowledge of the day, at that time, brahma was the only one who was alive with swadha. There was nothing more than that. 
O jataved agni! Install this running woman in the house. You have hundreds of ways to return it. You know thousands of ways to return it to me. Through them you attract this woman to me again. (3)
 O Indra! Many sages worship you. The gods have made chariots for your horses. Tvashta 
O Indra! Just as the sun gives me the rays, so do you give me money. Just as the water reaches the place below, so so do my praises come to you. 
This dund worn by me should be satisfied with the power of truth and yajna like Indra's thunderbolt. May this thunderbolt destroy the nation of our enemy malevolent king and cut off his necks. It should also cut the arteries of the throat in the same way as Shachipati Indra cut the arteries of the vritra's throat. (1)
O agni! What wood (samidha) should be dedicated to you? O agni! Please accept all of them with a very dear feeling like the sacrifice of ghee. (73)
O Indra! The cows who give their bodies for the gods related sacrifices and Soma, whose milk, curd, ghee etc. know the forms, fill them with milk and make them with progeny and send them to our yagya. 
O all-knowing Agni! You stand up to the monster, moving around, in the sky, walking along the way- if you look at it in any case, throw an arrow and pierce it. 
Repeat the heroic deeds of Indra, who defeats many, who are taken by men, who conquer the strong people, who have spurred the enemies, who are irrigated by the mon, who are happy, the destroyers, the defeaters of the enemies and the prajapalankarata Indra. 
Fire staggers the flames while extending their horns like bulls. The flames of the chin of agni are sharp. No one can stop them. The teeth of Balputra Agni are Shobhan. 
O Agni, God of fire! You come to this yagna with other gods. You are accepter of yajna, wise, truthful and supreme. 
By doing sompan, Indra's shoulders become as thick as a bull. With sompan, Indra's abdomen becomes huge and arms firm. In this way, Indra Vritra, who became powerful due to Soma Paan, destroys aggressive enemies like Asura. (2)
Swaha for the grace of the gods. Swaha for your happiness. Swaha for the deity who is born again and again. Swaha for Yajna Dev. Swaha for Basu Dev. Swaha for dinpati. Swaha for the fascinating day. Swaha for the imperishable one who leads to the introgression. Swaha for the people. Swaha for Bhuvanapati. Swaha for the overdeva. (20)
O Indra called by many men! Let us hosts cross poverty because of the cows you have given. With the food you have given us, let us satisfy the hunger of our frowns, sons, etc. Let us conquer enemies with our power and become superior among men like us and get wealth. (10)
Hey Mon! Look, it's heaven. It was extremely beautiful. It is light and wide sky. Hey Mon! You come, so that we may slay the vritra. You are a dish worthy of havan. Let us sacrifice you with other home-related substances. 
O deserters! The xen bird is better than other birds. Sheen is also the fastest-moving sheen prince among the birds, because he brought somrup havya, served to the gods by a chariot without wheels, from heaven for the sake of Manu Prajapati. 
Abhilashapuraka Som words between adhwaryu etc. while being purified. The green-coloured Mons sit in their place on top of the Kushas. 
Sing be our wealth. Indra sing to us. Sing give us the food as the best somras. O men! Similar songs become Indra. We want Indra with a reverential mind. 
When he walked towards the pole direction, he went in the form of Vishnu himself, calling Virat Annad. (9)
O glorious God! You are a stream of money, a pile of money, and the goats are your horses. Be the friend of all the hymns. 
Prana Vayu should not give up this age-seeking man and apana air should not leave it. I am handing over this man to the Saptrishis for protection. May those seven sages i.e. seven pranas take it to old age. (4)
 O Mon! You are the sweetest, sweetest and the holiest. Please offer a waterfall for Indra, who comes with the Marudaganas. 
O aschinikumaro! You drink somras together with Agni, Indra, Varuna, Vishnu, Adityas, Rudras, Vasus, Usha and Surya. 
On the occasion of attaining happiness, Indra, who is the vrithrashakta, goes to all such yagnas to drink someras, where somras are ready. 
AshwiniKumar is a dandiguna- man, a provider of health and happiness, the lord of the golden chariot and the enemy destroyer. Let their horses drink somers to bring them to this yagna. 
O adhwaryujano! Bring the somajors, the wealthy, the heavenly, the man-conquerors, the cultivators of fertile lands, the ashwajayi, the gojayi, the jalvijayi and the desired somras for indra, worthy of yajna. 
All our stotas who go around always praise the maruts for drinking somras. 
Ashwini kumars with perfectly pure hair, perfectly pure hair, mani-like hair, pure hair belong to Ashwini kumars. White color, white eye, red color are for Rudra Dev and Pashupati. For Yama with white ears, the rough nature is for Balay Rudra Dev. Nabh Roop Bale is related to Parjanya Dev. (3)
O Indra! Those who praise you again and again according to what you say, you establish them in the people and on the earth. You are born to take great power and wealth. Your host commits the violence of the sacrificial. 
The sun's contastric cycle of five seasonal rays rotates. All beings live in it. His heavy axis never tires. His navel is always the same, never breaking. 
They are the rays of the sun. They cook somers. Gives somers beauty and excellent color. In the birth of the gods, they illuminate the heavens. (60)
Fire makes yajna annamaya. They all go along the road. They are rotten. They observe the yajna with their huge eyes. (18)
How can we, who have equal love for each other, give a tribute to the great Vaishnavar Agni, the great, and the host, the kamvarshi and the host kamvarshi? Just as the snout holds the roof, so agni holds heaven with its vast and entire body. 
"O Indra! Where is the power in my little sense to praise your ancient and wise God? O all-knowing and rich indra! You tell us from time to time, so we easily take part of your praise." 
Hey Aditya! Just as warriors live in defense of armor, so we will be in your protection. You save us from sin, big and small. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
O flowers of grass! You spread around the yajna altar and cover it. Do not destroy the host's companions and children sleeping on this altar. O places of sitting of hotas green and as delightful as heaven! You spread on the yajna altar. These are gold ornaments in the worlds of the spread market. (1)
O Indra! You had surrounded their enemy Ahlvasya in the battle for their pleasure by knowing the famous yajnakarma of the kings named Turvash and Yadu to be true. 
O Indra! For your sake, the mon has been squeezed, so o you mighty and hostile! Come to the yajnasthala. Just as the sun fills the sky with its rays, so may the power generated by sompan complete you. 
There are seven samidhas, seven honey and seven seasons of seven homas. Men get seven types of ghee. We have also heard that similarly there are seven donkeys. (18)
 O Indra! You never lose while fighting. Your mind is determined for Sompan. We want your cooperation in the yagna. 
O agni that knows the creators! You have been ignited in the sacrifice of man today and are worshiping the gods. Lum is the worshiper and knower of friends. You invoke the gods. You are the messengers of the gods, the wise and the visionary. (1)
Indra Dev came to give us property to protect us with his horses. They are thunderbolt and rich. They should come to the Yagyashala and please accept their annamayi havi. (49)
Displaying the masterless and powerful enthusiasm, the Maruts had chopped the vritra into pieces like a mountain. 
Savita Dev resorts to the rays that go up. When the rays raise the sun to the sky, Varuna, friends and other gods begin their deeds as a dust-blowing bull walks behind the cows. 
Understand that knowledge to be in the mode of goodness by which a person sees one undivided imperishable reality within all diverse living beings.
Hey Mon! Please Indra for our wealth and enter within the working Indra. You surround the enemies by violenceing them. No enemy comes close to you. 
O Soma and Rudra Dev! Save us from such a sin, which is also ashamed to take the name. You receive this yajna and wear nectar in it. (8)
O ancestor and the sacrificial agni! May you be pleased with this sacrifice of ours and our friendship. Listen to these words of praise of ours. 
O teacher! If born, worship like a guest and the homeowner, place the agni in a happy agni called jatveda. 
O Indra, Agni, Varuna and friend God! Give us strength. May the Deserts and Vishnu also give us strength. Let both Ashwini Kumar, Rudra, wives of all gods, Pusha, Bhaga and Saraswati accept our praise. 
Fifteen thousand ukthamtras are as wide as Dyava-Prithvivi. The glory of our hymns is of thousands of types. Like hymns, the voice is also limitless. 
The ignorant who thinks the Brahmin is soft, wants to destroy him, that God is violent. Indra ignites agni in the heart of that sinner and both the sky and the earth have an animosity towards him. (5)
O God of Agni! Kill him who hates us or whom we hate by the power of destruction that you have. (2)
We pray through hymns by burning the fire, the lord of the praise and the lord of the food, and by going to the Supreme Bali Pusha, by pleasing through happy hymns. May the god who gives the abode and the adornments follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot from the high and low place. 
Shouting, raising money and wanting a calf, the cow reached near the rich. May we have great fortune by giving milk for the Ashchinikumaras, a cow that does not commit violence. (5)
Swadha and Salutations to the agni of the best father. (72)
O Indra! May we receive the rich south that fulfills your desire for praise. O pure Indra! We don't give that dakshina to anyone other than the psalms. We will praise you a lot in this yajna by getting the best son and grandson. 
Hey Varun! The whole world knows your deeds. This is the hymn! Speak praise for Varuna. O Indra! It is heard that you killed the barries. You had flown the covered rivers. 
They are squeezed to drink, green in colour and all the holders go to their beloved place Dronakalash, chanting the word 'Som'. 
 While killing enemies, Indra protects the host just as the fighter protects the army at the time of attacking the enemy. 
We praise them Bhava, Sharva, Rudra and Pashupati. We know the arrows of these gods. May they always be welfare for us. (9)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Sit on your chariot which is going towards the host of Havi, by which you want to reach the yajna, through him come to the place of yajna to get the son of the host and to do your welfare. 
 O agni! After igniting, your smoke spreads in the sky. Turns into cloud form. You are going to sanctify. With the effect of praise, you are illuminated like the sun. 
Due to the intoxication caused by drinking somers, six kings come to us in groups of two each with delicious bhog. 
The bad dream that neither makes me like nor makes my eyes pleasant, which seems to be devouring to me and does not please me, I leave that bad self to the one who praises the work towards the moon. He should penetrate the enemy of a bad dream. (2)
When the sun drinks water with rudraputra maruts through his kirana-like characters, at that time the air shakes that water and completes the secondary voice. 
O Indra! Just as water pleases the thirsty, so you were kind to the ancient praiseor. That's why I'm praising you again and again. I get food, strength and long life. 
O Indra! In the yajna in which the wives of the host enter and go out, drink the somras prepared by Okhali in the same yajna knowing your own knowledge. 
I enter the water for a bath today. I've got water juice today. O agni that dwells in the water! Come and fill me with your fast. 
Within this sun, the light moves up and down and with its life, the sun becomes great and pervades the sky 
 Agni is the one who keeps all the wealth, calls the gods to the yajna, who performs the yajna properly and delivers the blessings to the gods. We worship you. 
 O Mon! Your juice is pure and bright. He destroys all 
O Sahartu Indra! When we get to you, let's get rich quickly. O Shur Indra! Let's be safe from you. 
May gold be beneficial for you and water will give happiness. The pillar of tying a cow is going to give you happiness. The hole in the gambling will make you happy. May the water that purifies you in a hundred ways be soothing to you. You touch your body with your husband in a pleasant way. (40)
Batloi, which cooks the Viratu form Odan, is placed on agni in the Rig Veda and Yajurveda has lit agni in it. (14)
The former men who were full of truth, who were born out of sama and increased the truth, O man for the sake of Yama! May you receive those sages with tapobal. (15)
Both Vaidya Ashwinikumar are the protectors of our body. Goddess Saraswati carries the sweet Somerasa through many ways and takes it to Indra Dev. (56)
Hey Ritvijo! As fast as a horse, worthy, inspiring of water and speed, draw water and sink into water, squeeze and irrigate with water. 
The king who lives in his house well satisfied, the earth increases him with fruits in all times and the subjects automatically bow before him, the king to whom Brahma goes first. 
This is the hymn! Praise the prevailing form of Indra for our vast house and praise the mighty Indra for getting the victorious wealth. 
Horses were born from that sacrificial man. In addition to those horses, donkeys and mules were also born, which were teeth on both sides of the top and bottom. Cows were born from that sacrificial man and goats and sheep were born from him. (12)
O imperishable sun! You have a place in jhulok. You go into this. I know that place. I know very well your abode in the sky, including the worshippers. (44)
The sages, who acted with great knowledge, made a chariot with beautiful wheels for the Aschinikumaras and the two horses named Hari, the vehicle form of Indra. The tambhus with the best wealth had given their parents puberty and the calf a companion mother. 
Hey Mon! Protect our animals and this world in diversity. When you are the item of Someras, you search all over the world and bring the necessary things for our lives, so you are great. 
O Ashwinikumar! You come as homeowner and be the utmost confirmatory to us. Be the guardian of our world and our body. You come to the houses of our sons and grandsons. 
God is omniscient, the most ancient one, the controller, subtler than the subtlest, the support of all, and the possessor of an inconceivable divine form; he is brighter than the sun, and beyond all darkness of ignorance. One who at the time of death, with unmoving mind attained by the practice of Yog, who fixes the prāṇ (life airs) between the eyebrows, and steadily remembers the Divine Lord with great devotion, certainly attains him.
  O worshiper! Praise the agni with a wide and formidable form to protect yourself. Praise agni to get wealth. 
O Indra! Listen to the call of my sompaner's stone and understand the praise of the scholar who praises me. You understand these services of mine by becoming my assistant. 
 O Mon! You are pure and divine. You are refined for Indra and the gods. You are a seeker, a strong and powerful person. Please reach out to Indra. 
 O Mon! You are going to increase happiness. You've been squeezed to give havi. You have been filled in these urshi for the purpose of getting food and fame. 
O Indra! May we receive the rich south that fulfills your desire for praise. O psalmist Indra! We don't give it to anyone else except the psalms. We will praise you a lot in this yajna by receiving the best son, grandson. 
O teacher! Put the crushed mon on the dashapavitra with the help of stones. You purify it for Indra's drink. 
We return the fraudulent enmity to him and we send the act created due to enmity back to the creator of the same. The krita should go to its place like a horse and destroy the child of the person who uses the krita. (19)
Apala, a girl who was going to bathe in the water, received Somalata on the way, and while bringing somlata home, she said, "I squeeze your juice for the mighty Indra." 
O agni! The learned people had gained the best wealth by praising you. You increase the wealth and confirmation of our praises. 
O Indra! Don't please your horses called Hari, who fulfill their desires and have beautiful backs, to the other hosts. We will completely satiate you by squeezed mon. You come leaving many hosts. 
O king! You conquer the vast directions of the east etc. by sitting on the tiger and becoming unbeatable like a tiger. Because of being brilliant, may all the people wish for you and may your kingdom receive divine water, so that there is no famine in your kingdom. (4)
O Arjun, by unalloyed devotion alone can I be known as I am, standing before you. Thereby, on receiving my divine vision, O scorcher of foes, one can enter into union with me.
Let the bright, the chief of all the gods, those who know everything, have a smoke-like flag, go close to the agne devas who perform the yajna of the hosts by virtue of samidha, praiseworthy, constantly and by speech, and take our vow along with the yajna. 
The red kidney saw me walking down the road once. He looked at me and jumped up like this, just as the one who is in pain of his back usually gets up while doing the work. O earth and sky! Know this suffering of mine. 
O water! The sin you have been pleased with us to destroy, we go to you quickly to destroy the same sin. You make us worthy of reproduction. 
O Indra! The item by which you send great waters to the ocean like a chariot, we beseech you to be in the same condition to walk on the path of the yajna. 
O agni! Those who, knowing your influence, always call you for the yagna and call and protect your strength by praises and sayings, enter the inaccessible city of enemies. 
The god with knowledge created agni in the yagna by the force that got rid of addictions. I praise the great agni that shines by the bhasman jyoti with the desire for food like a load-carrying horse. 
Mudgalani gained the wealth of the husband by showing the same power as the abandoned woman. Just as the clouds rain water on the earth, Mudglani rained arrows. We also conquer by a similar charioteer. This victory give us grain. 
O darbhamani! Make powder of my enemies and those who gather army against me. Make powder of all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (6)
Let the death angels named Ajir and Adhiraj destroy the burnt deeds of a man willing to fight with me in the same way as the eagle falls on the birds from the sky path. The enemy who wishes to do violence against us, his life should be destroyed. (3)
O Indra! In our yajna, the name of The Ritvij sat on time. In our yajna, Kush met each other. In the morning, stones met each other in the morning to crush Someras. (2)
O Shamya (means used in yajna)! You are a poultry, that is, you are aware like a rooster. You are a sweet-tongued (sweet speaker). Please energize and strengthen us. By your grace, may we attain firmness in conflicts and victory in conflicts. Hey soup! Oh my god! You get an increase from rain every year. Yajna increases the rain. May Yajna Dev please accept you. You have been made completely holy. You have been protected from impurities. Enemies have been removed. Air protect you. May they please purify havi through you. Savita Dev please accept you with your gold-less pierced hands. (16)
O God! You are aged. By your grace, I too should become old, I may live for the fullest age i.e. hundred years. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Come before us with the help of your fine, medium and inferior horses. Open the door to the safe and cow-filled goshala and give me good money to my praise. 
Coming to the cut off from venomous organisms, the drug destroys the effect of the poison and also destroys it while going away. Even when it is uprooted and grinded, it destroys the effect of the poison. 
I dig this subdued herb called Sauvarcha. It will make my husband friendly to me and stop my husband's relationship with other women. This herb should leave me and bring back the husband and make the husband happy while coming towards me. (1)
I praise the well-repressed, praiseworthy and human-benevolent agni of sins, in whose flames the sons of Shrutrva and the great Riksh perform yajnakarma. 
Oh my god! May Indra Dev be victorious and give us happiness. Their arms should be fierce, so that they can attack the enemies. (46)
Give the radiant usho! Travel the whole world immediately with the help of horses that go to the yagna, awakening the sleeping human beings and animal-like creatures to travel. 
O Mon! We make you shiver to rain water. We make you shiver for the welfare of the world. We make you shiver for the water of the clouds. You are enjoyable. We make you shiver to rain water. You are Madhuman (full of sweetness). We make you shiver to shower madhu (sweetness). You are shining. We make you shiver for the rain of light. We make you shiver for the sun's rays in the form of the day. (48)
Indra, who strengthens his strength by devouring the great and the enemies with the fierce, somrupi food, with the visible nostrils and the ashes of hari, wears an iron-made vajra in his adjacent arms to give us wealth. 
O Indra and Vishnu! May both of you always be victorious and never defeated by anyone. Neither of these two is defeated by the other. O Indra and Vishnu! The object that you compete with two asuras is located in the form of Lok, Veda and Vani and is more than thousands. (1)
O agni! Just as we provide grass to the horse every day in the horse and feed it (with grass), so we hosts live under your protection. Please nurture us with money in the same way. Let us present to you a diet of samidhas every day. Let us never be sad by your grace. Get all kinds of happiness. (75)
Salutations to the west direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (27)
The agni burns in the delightful ushering period and shines like the sun with its bright rays. They would have been agni that the yajna would be the basis of the hymns as the instrument, the best of the yajna, the masters of the people, come to the host as if the beloved guest comes. 
Be able to carry a havan like a host horse and serve the blazing agni like the sun, the son of the sky, every day. 
O Indra with horses called Hari! When searching for cows, the warriors of the opposing side can neither remove your left hand nor the right hand. Even the asuras who obstruct the struggle cannot do this. 
Indeed, you alone know yourself by your inconceivable energy, O Supreme Personality, the Creator and Lord of all beings, the God of gods, and the Lord of the universe!
O God! Put us across the path. Sin is the cause of obstacles, you destroy it. O son of the water-year-old cloud! Come ahead of us. 
Oh, God! The meritorious hymns whose hymns go all over especially like the branches of the tree, they worship all the gods through their praises in the Devabhilashi Stota Yajnas. They are the ones who worship Dyava-Prithivi to receive the gods. 
O yajnapalankarata agni! Among human beings, we raise you up through committees. Let's be endowed with our garhaptya-yajna, son, livestock, etc. You meet us sharply. 
This stotao! Describe Indra's friendly deeds through good words and friendly mantras. Indra listened to the prayer of Rajarshi named Dabhiti with a reverential heart, killing the demons named Dhuni and Chumuri. 
 The form of Som is succulent and invigorating. They are omniscient. Humans take them to the yagna with wooden utensils. 
O present sun with its radiance in each organ of beings! We greet you and worship you with charu etc. We also serve your followers and family deities with all our heart. We worship you through Havi for the retirement of the fever etc. disease that has gripped the body parts of this man. (2)
O agni! You get water directly from heaven. Devgan inspires our intellect towards height. Which is in front of the sun and which is located in the form of water below, you are pleased to rain both types of water. (49)
Hey Mon! You bring us rain from Doloka and bring us waves of water. You give us a decay-free group of vast grains. 
O agni! May We be able to light you well and you may fulfill our sacrifices, for the gods eat the things that have been poured into you by the ritvites. You bring the sons of Aditi, that is, the gods, here, because we wish them. Let no one violence us when you have received your friendship. 
The birth-givers of the words extend the water while walking and motivate the ramming cows to enter deep water up to the knee. 
The agnis that complete the earth and the sky with their brightness, run in the sky with smoke, are the ones who are seen to remove the darkness in the bright and desireful agni black nights. They are located above the nights. 
O agni, the one who calls the gods and the best of the sacrificial ones! You pray through us and perform havan in this yajna for the purpose of the enemies of the evil maruts and bring friends, Varuna, Ashwinikumaras and earth-sky with you in this yajna. 
This sacrifice is flowing for Ashwini Dev. You drink it. This offering is being made for saraswati devi to drink. She has been a sacrifice for Indra Dev's drinking. Swaha for Indra Dev. Let this oblation be for our happine. Let this oblation be for our happine. (4)
 O Indra! You are the piercer of the cities 
We invite the divine powers of heaven to the yajna and establish them on the bedi. We invite the divine powers of the earth to the yajna and establish them on the altar. We worship the divine powers of heaven and earthland in this divine sacrifice of the earth on the yajnavedi. We revere the clay goddess at the top (high) position of the yajna. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! To which host do you travel, to whom do you approach, and in front of whom do you have horses added to the chariot to go? Whose praises are you pleased with? We wish to get you. 
O many yajnakartas and wise Indra! Your powers run on the same paths as cows. O lord-in-law Indra! Your powers, like the ropes of calves, bind enemies without bondage themselves. 
 O Mon! In Someras, the hosts add cow's milk. They are happy to drink it, prepare it in many ways in many ways. Mix it in glowing water like sweet milk and gold. Soma falls from a higher place, from a higher part of the water. They are omnipresent. 
O mankind-benefactorial water! Give our sons and grandsons distress-destroying and happiness-giving food. You are more of a healer than a mother, producing plant and animal beings. 
He who knows this conquers the luminous worlds. (14)
O Indra! You live with the Maruts and give abhaya to your worshippers. You are happy to be with the Maruts. The glory of the maruts and yours are the same. (1)
From heaven, those who do good deeds do not fall and where there is a snow mountain head, that is, the highest peak, there is a state of nectar. Leprosy has been born from that nectar. Leprosy, the medicine of all diseases, is related to Soma in heaven there. O leprosy! Destroy all diseases and demons. (8)
Yama- O Yummy! Who can appoint Taurus, the form of his speech, to bear the burden of truth? The man who is diligent, brilliant, devoid of anger and shame and sits in the heart of the audience with his words, who grows only by the words of truth, is long-lived because of its fruit. (6)
The agni that sees all the bhuvanas as a whole and illuminates it with a means of the sun, save us from demons, vampires, etc. (4)
There, Arjun could see stationed in both armies, his fathers, grandfathers, teachers, maternal uncles, brothers, cousins, sons, nephews, grand-nephews, friends, fathers-in-law, and well-wishers.
O Indra! Don't let the monsters do us violence. O very strong Indra! Let those demons not make us peopleless. Swami Indra shows enthusiasm in killing the devious person. Do not let the celibacyless people be an obstacle to our yajna. 
I know the eternalness, antiquity, and birth of the great, the guardian and the creator of all, the heavens, and its birth from one place. That's why I accept her as my sister. In the vast path of that sky, different gods are seated with their vehicles praising. 
The sun also covers the earth's womb, the sky and space. They are the illuminators of the whole world and pervade all tones. (16)
When Indra, the lord of wealth, had destroyed the ninety-nine cities of Shambar simultaneously with the thunderbolt, the Maruts praised Indra through the trishtupanda in the battlefield itself. Indra interrupted Sambar by becoming powerful with the praise of the Maruts. 
O Indra! Just as water flows down into the ocean, so praise comes from you. Just as humans start looking downwards due to the glare of sunlight, so people save their visions from your brightness. Just as the stots call you in front of the yagna altar, so the Ritwijas serve you. (2)
The Brahmin's wife may have ten abrahman children, but the Brahmin who receives her pani is her husband. (8)
O Indra! At the end of the yajna, we praise you as dear and very well-being as your friend, as your friend, as the gods present. May we receive by your mercy the glorious sons and the best long life. 
O Maruto worthy of praise! The man who is despised by all, who wants to grieve our minds by being unbecoming of anger, will bind us to the loops of Varuna Dev, the enemy of sins. You hit him with a heating armament. 
O Rudra Dev! You are blue-necked and white-throated. You move down in the globe. Please keep your bows away from us for thousands of plans. (57)
O very young agni! When you are born happily, then the yajna is well ritualized and kush is laid. Hearing praise, agni and become satisfied. Everyone's beloved earth sky is also called. 
 O Mon! You are refined for the use of goddesses. You give us full form, dominance and sharpness. 
Fix your mind on me alone and surrender your intellect to me. There upon, you will always live in me. Of this, there is no doubt.
The four directions occupy as much space as they see and the constellations that the eyes that take the form, we should get the extraordinary sign of Indra with supreme opulence and the glory of the aforementioned gods. (5)
At this time, the thief, the one who commits violence and the enemy of death, O beautiful night! Go near the enemy who comes near me and cut off his tongue and head. (9)
O agni! While sitting down to perform the yajnakarma, the stunning ritwijs give you the name you have in the yajna and irrigate you with the offering of ghee. So come to protect us and give food to our children. 
 Som is the infant 
O Indra! At that time, praise and happy mantras were born for you. At that time you defeated the world that was created and born in the future. 
Hey Mon! You flow towards the streams of Madhur Soma, sit in this squeezing place with sharp juices and become beautiful drinking substances for the gods in the yagna. 
O Indra! When your beautiful horses grew every day, after that you bound the whole world in the law. 
O Saubhagyavati Sita i.e. the tip of the plough! You go down to the earth. We worship you, so that you may give us the fruits and the riches. 
The yogi who are satisfied by knowledge and discrimination, and have conquered their senses, remain undisturbed in all circumstances. They see everything—dirt, stones, and gold—as the same.
The look of the purchased Som drips from all sides. Vaidya Ashwini b Saraswati devi milks milk for Indra Dev. (15)
In the game of gambling, people are afraid of the one who has four balls in their hands only until he throws them away, in the same way that the host does not want to condemn the other, but is afraid of him. 
In a state where the Brahmin's wife is stopped by making her unconscious, the king's horse with white ears is not even admired by ploughing in front of the chariot. (15)
Situated in his place, the desire-filled, the one with the eternal intellect, the beloved of all, the destroyer of the vrithra and the one who desires more of the gods, the Pavaman Som, who is more desirous of the gods, is well-suited with the gods. 
 Som scatters water in clouds. They are cloud-spreaders and water-holding. They surround cows and horses greened by demons. They are enemies. Like the armored hero, Soma kills the enemies. 
The Brahmin host removes his mind from his intellect and all work and puts himself in the gy. The yajna is specially held. Savita Dev is awake. Praise is praiseworthy. We want to make Savita Dev all-round friendly. Swaha for Savita Dev. (14)
The man who wants to destroy us as a monster should be destroyed by his own sins and go away on his own. 
O Indra! Your armament is sharp and the army of the Maruts is with you. Who can act against your thunderbolt? O Som drinker Indra! You drive away the esudite and devout asuras through your chakra. 
I hold the radiance, light, ez and force of the waters and the semen of the vegetation in the same way as the extraordinary signs of the senses are present in Indra. That is why this man should wear Hiranya while attaining growth. (3)
This is the hymn! Praise the friend and Varuna in the yajna with a wide house. Varuna is the master of wealth containing animals. They are able to give great repulsive food. 
Without poison, facing down and approaching you, I have cut the snake named Sharkotak into pieces, that is, I have eliminated its poison and I have destroyed this snake. (5)
Shur Indra, drunk with this mon, destroys all the enemies and gives money to the hosts. 
I give up the water that is disturbing, destroying, migrating, suppressing the mind, causing inflammation, getting from digging and contaminating the body, combining my enemies with it. I won't touch that myself. (5)
This hymn! The way I receive Indra, the swami of cows, you worship him in the same way. (1)
O Indra! Break the morale of the enemy. Run the armaments on the one who wants to make us shabby. Save us from the enemy's wrath and give us happiness and separate the enemy's weapon from us. 
I have seen the majestic, very famous and the dazzling Narasana 
 Agni Varenya 
Oh, God! While greeting, these hymns worship your yajna well. Being seated near us and being praised is superior to other than others. O host! You worship the gods. Oh, the faster ones! You convert the sacrificial land. 
May the agni that eats the havya protect us more than our greetings. We praise the agni. 
Our friend Devgan should rise up as a teacher of all those enemies. All of them should be ready for their education. O enemies! Devgan won this battle and destroyed the enemies and went to his place. (26)
These Jupiter gods had won the entire transit land from the wealth of the asuras as well as their cows. Jupiter, without being stopped by anyone, desires to enjoy heaven through yajnakarma and destroys the enemy through mantras. 
O Indra and Varun Devo! You hear our praise and give us wealth for the soothing food. We praise your strength by saying great. Just as people cross the water by boat, so we cross sins. 
O agni! Come with Aditya, Vasus, Indra and Vayu and drink the squeezed somras in the yajna and be as happy as sage Atri. 
Brihaddiva, the son of Atharva, who has more qualities, has only offered his immense praise to Indra. Sinless rivers please Indra by becoming a means of yajna and increase them with their power. 
O radiant Mon! I am happy every day in your friendship. O yellow mon! Many monsters interrupt your friend. You hit them. 
In this corpse-eater agni, we cleanse sins. We became pure. Now let this agni make us full life. (13)
Do not let som's opponents and enemies do violence to us. O God of Indra! Give us food. 
O the great agni in the Angiras! Just as Manu ignited you, so do these people burn. You know my praise. 
O agni! You are the producer of wealth, the best offspring and the best semen. We water you with offerings to get all this. Please accept us. (1)
O Dhanaswami Indra! All that you have done for those who squeeze somras in the yagnas is worth saying infinite deeds. You had revealed a lot of wealth which was collected by Paravat to sharbah, the friend of the sages. 
This hymn! Praise the Rudra devta, whose abode is in the crematorium, who is the swami of vampires etc. and who is mighty, fear-mongering and near and violent. O Indra, the destroyer of sorrow! Please be pleased with our praise and give us courage. Let your army forsake us and attack those who hate us, (40)
I call all the herbs with beautiful leaves that Angira Rishi used on patients, the divine herbs that Ramdrut knew, the herbs that geese and all other birds are familiar with and the herbs that the deer know. (24)
Urvashi said, "O puruva! You don't die. Don't fall to the earth. Don't eat you ominous wolves. Women's friendships are not real. The heart of women is like the heart of wolves." 
O Indra! Establish in our gaushala a god called Saraswat, who is divine, full of water, who lives among great waters, who showers for the growth of herbs, is compatible with water from all sides and satisfies the whole world with rain. They always stay in a region of wealth. (1)
When Jupiter dev consumes all the things related to the world. Then they go up to the sky and get prestige in the best worlds. At that time, all the other gods give enthusiasm to the powerful Jupiter Dev with their words. The rest of the gods give progress to Jupiter, who fulfills the desires, even while living in different directions. (10)
Ritwiz atharva churns out this agni like the sage and comes out of the midst of the gods and runs around and brings the intelligent agni from the midst of darkness. 
O hosts! Indra Dev is rich, anandador, housing giver and annadata. We, your sons, call out to you with the same voice as cows rambha for calves. (11)
O Indra! Your fast-moving horses roar like a raining cloud. The flat earth was pleased. The clouds were also pleased to move around. 
O Vajrahasta and asura-destroyer Indra and Agni! Give us money and protect us in wars. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash worship this prayer of ours. 
O horse plowed in the yoke of the chariot! You become as fast as air. When you are inspired by Indra, you reach the destination with the same speed as the mind. May forty-nine maruds who know the whole world meet you and may Tvashta Dev give speed to your feet. (1)
Just as the bird group flies after the birds, so the vegans should follow the fast-moving and more desireful Dadikdra Dev. They are as fast as the lion bird and the protectors. Everyone walks with them with the desire for food. 
The sons of Ritwij jal, the born, the greenervarna and the radiant soma are filtered on the dashapavitra for the gods. 
All the gods drowned Kamadeva in water with his wife, Aadhi, i.e. anxiety, because he was suffering in his disconnection. O woman! I am for you torment that Cupid with the power of Varuna, the swami of water. (1)
On earth, humans imitate the characters of Madhukasha Gau in many ways and seeing it in many forms, it is said to be born from agni and air, the fierce daughter of Marudgana. (3)
When Kumar, the son of King Sahdev, told us to give both the horses, we brought them. 
The rays of agni having many forms and spreading everywhere, after the water rain, the place of origin of water remains collected in the sky. Water-like cows, which please everyone, live in this agni. The vast earth and sky are the parents of beautiful Agni. 
Indra and Ribhu kill many armies of our enemies by their command. They violate all the enemies in the war. The enemy destroyers Indra, Ribhuksha and Vaj will put an end to the enemy's force. 
Jupiter, along with shobhan praising and luminous angiras, had destroyed the asura named Bal while wording and while saying the word, he took out the cows that inspired Eve. 
 O Mon! To give perfection to the Somyagya, seven yagniks of the appropriate jati are present to complete the yajna ritual. 
O workman Agni and Mon! Listen to this call, accept our praises and be the one who gives pleasure to the host who gives greetings. 
O Indra! You're going to do hundreds of things! We worship you through the hawks and invite you to our yagna to gain wealth. (9)
O fire! You are also born like money for the sacrifice of the gods. You destroy hate by your own force and are brilliant. Your joy produced by accepting the vow is very strong and your yajna is the most successful. O fire without the slightest and the one that will remove the little of the devotees! Hosts serve you like messengers. 
O Lord of the world, Indra! May the praises that arise from the heart and made by the psalms go to you. My praise in the yajna causes your awakening, know him. 
Intoxicating mon dripping juices to Indra like milch cows. The milch cows, which are ramming and sitting on the cushions, hold the somping somras dripping from their trunks in the form of milk. 
We will praise The Seeker of Food and Strength, the Great and the Benefactor of praises, Dadidra Deva. We call Varuna, friend, Agni and Vajradhari Indra for our welfare. 
The wise endowed with equanimity of intellect, abandon attachment to the fruits of actions, which bind one to the cycle of life and death. By working in such consciousness, they attain the state beyond all suffering.
The sun's rays, having a beautiful motion and absorbing water, go into the sky, filling the cloud with water, which is black in color and moving by the law. They come down with water and soak the earth completely. 
The air that does strange things! We ask for money by squeezing somers towards your observance. We will be rich with the money given by air. 
 O Mon! You are kind and dear. Praises for you compete with each other. You guide everyone. 
On the holy day of this yajna may all the gods be well-being of us. May the leaders of all human beings and the agni that give us houses be well-being. May the glorious sages protect and well-being of us. May Rudra do us well and save us from sin. 
Transcendental to this manifest and unmanifest creation, there is yet another unmanifest eternal dimension. That realm does not cease even when all others do.
Like a brother-in-bound woman, those who renounce the yagnaadi, the women who hate their husbands, the wicked, the sinners, the psyches, and the unspeakable truths, attain hell. 
O Mon! With the force by which you destroy our powerful enemies, tell us the word blessing. (2)
O Indra! You are the first born sage. You are the only master of the gods by your own strength. You give us money again and again. 
Acting like agni, the act reached him, behaving adversely. Just as the water grows by cutting the edges, in the same way, it should be compatible with the act and reach it. He came back to Kriyakari like a Sukhkari Rath. (13)
The ritwij abhilashpuraks mix Som with the sweet milk of the cow for Indra's intoxication. 
Salutations to Rudra Dev, who holds the armament for the terrorists. Salutations to both your arms and your bow and quiver. (14)
The head named Kashyapa is the Arogya Adi Surya with seven broad rays related to the sun. They take down the stream-like water generated in the sky from the sky. O patient! Let them destroy your tuberculosis like a water surgery. (1)
The sins we have committed to attain the subjects of the senses - words, touches, forms, etc., O Apsarao named Ugrampshya and Ugrajita! Today, repay our debt to the rich favorably, so that we can repay. (1)
 O Indra! You're going to do hundreds of jobs. We perform yagya for you with yajaman mantras. We praise your glory. You are a Brahmavid. Like bamboo, you get a high title. 
I salute with folded hands for rudra who is located in space and kills those who do not perform yagya and god violent. (23)
O earth! You stand around me east, west, north, south. Don't get me bandits. You are going to protect me from the huge violence. (32)
O Vasa Gau! You have to walk with your arms, the front legs and the hind legs. Many substances were produced from your intestines and trees were born from your stomach. (21)
O medicine! May you have a long life mine. I also mine you. May I also have a long life. Please also have a long life. Please be free from hundreds of seedlings. (100)
O Mon! Those who worship your dham in the yagya. May you get all those yajna places. You expand the houses. You are the destroyer of the best heroes and cowards who cross. Please reach out to our experts. (37)
Jupiter tied the gem produced from fal, ghee dripping, shaktishalini and khair tree wood to get strength. While wearing it, the moon won the gold of the cities of asuras and the donors. May this gem be given to this host again and again and daily. O host! With His help you destroy your enemies. (10)
O agni! They give money to the praise-giving monk who comes to the king named Dani Ashwamedha, who asks for money. You give money to that ashwamedha who wants to sacrifice. 
O fire! Bring the gods here to drink som from the bright horses that carry you, which are added to the chariot by your will. 
These agnis are the guardians, the best, the brightest and the masters of wealth of hundreds and thousands of types of food. 
O Sage Indra! Come from heaven and space to drink somras in this yagna of ours. Let us bear the praises of the assh named Hari to you for the pleasure before us. 
May the present agni in space achieve many ritual paths for our sons. They are the oracles of confirmation, the givers of heaven, the protectors of the people, the creators of God, the earth, and the heavens. The ritwijs have held on to the money-giving agni. 
The twelve-saw wheel of the sun moves around heaven again and again and never gets old, O Adityarup Agni! Three hundred and sixty days and nights as you have seven hundred and twenty sons and daughters. 
When he walked towards all the inlands, he went on to make Brahma an annad and make him Prajapati. (23)
All the bhuvans which are adorned with the holy godtej in the midst of the water, always having a true form, perpetuated and in the midst of the water, are all their branches and the vegetation containing flowers is born from them. 
Indra's son Vasuk said, "O Indra! The gods consider me to be as great as you, brave and full of desire in every work. I had gladly killed Vritra with a vaj. I gave the host a group of cows out of my glory." 
The agnis are ignited by us and they also see the parts of darkness. The memomakers rise to the east of The Sun Usha for shobha and people see them. 
We salute gandharva's namaskar. We salute him for his stunning eyes. O Swami of all kinds of wealth! We bow to you with knowledge. Stay away from our leaves like you nymphs. (35)
I know the importance of agni dev, the chief special jnani and performing five yajnas namely Devyagya, Pitryagya, Sutayagya, Manavyagya and Brihatyagya. They are ignited in many ways. I beg Agni Dev, who enters all the people in the form of agni, to save me from sin. (1)
Just as Khuwa falls down to the home, Indra's green eyes fall on the yagna. Indra Somrup speeds up his green jaws to devour the food. The horses make their bodies conscious by drinking the present intoxicating and beautiful somras in pure spoons. 
The host can get as much prosperous place in heaven through Agnistom Yagya, as much as he can get through guest service. (2)
O man who wants age! I stabilize the life and my air in your body.   I take such measures that old age and death cannot touch you. I extend your life and do your welfare and remove the Yamdoots sent by Yamraj and roaming everywhere from you. (11)
O Indra and the mountain! You bring food with Shobhan and son by a big chariot. Oh, God! Devour the havya in our yajna and be pleased with it and grow by our praises. 
Cows come towards us, do us welfare, sit in our gaushala and please us by giving us milk etc. The cows of many varnas like White, Krishna etc. should be more children and become rich in the host's house and keep giving milk for Indra for a long time. (1)
Usha wakes someone up for money, someone for food, someone for mahayagya and someone for getting the desired thing. She illuminates the whole world for the sake of various livelihoods. 
O sacrifice! Give you peace through lists of those who are two, three, four, six verses, verseless and verse verses. (34)
May this place protect us from all sides like precious, hundred knots, powerful, agni of waters i.e. Wadvagni, Rajasuya Karma. May this gem made by the devas match us with age. (1)
Which God assumed form, glory and name in man? Which god gave it knowledge, character and speed? (12)
Let us be the trusted servants of Indra, the best of the heroes, and also cross the other Usha. Trilok Rishi got us hundreds of ushas. Kuts Rishi decorated the chariot of the world with food. (2)
Soma, the master of wealth and indra's friend, the base of the juice, the inspiration of the praises, drips as thousands of streams. 
Seeing the arrival of the Sun who illuminates all, the constellations run away with the night in the same way as thieves run away. 
We go to the som who pleases all, the more wordy, the younger, the younger, the one who grows up with the ahutis. 
Father Kashyapa has created the desire-filled Indra for the sake of war. The woman has also given birth to the human-hearted Indra. Indra is the commander of the human beings, the lord is the God of the whole world, the enemy, the seeker of cows and the one who defeats the enemies. 
O mighty God! We target you for truth and security. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. (10)
O agni! You are the pole, the holder. You get detail from Vishwakarma. May the sea not destroy you. Do not become an air barrier. Don't be distressed. You give strength to the earth. (16)
 O hosts! Som is brown and powerful with lalai. They touch heaven. You worship that divine Soma. 
O agni! You are successful. You bring the sacrificial, well-lit and war-strong friend and Varuna to this yagna. 
O wife of the sun! You are full of sons and riches. Consume indra of your water-like havi, because he is the best among all the gods. (13)
The leaders of lightning, the leaders of rain, etc., the armaments of stones, the ones who receive the light, those who destroy the mountains, the ones who give water again and again, the ones who inspire the thunderbolt, the thunderers together and the cited force-laden deserters appear for the rain. 
O o one-sided tree! Pestles etc. and stones have used words to crush barley, paddy, etc. prepared in Samvatsar. By Your grace, may we be the best sons, grandsons, powerful servants and masters of wealth. (5)
For the embodied being, it is impossible to give up activities entirely. But those who relinquish the fruits of their actions are said to be truly renounced.
O man suffering from disease! I redeem you from diseases like decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god caused by disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the treason of the Guru, Dev etc. and from the sin of Varuna. Both the world and the earth are benefactors for you. (1)
The best grace of the most edible agni is revered in humans in the same way as the pure, liquid and hot milk of the cow for the gods who wish for milk, or the milch cow for the man who asks for cow. 
O Indra! You protected the kings named Msushva and Suryavan by the palakshakti. You had subjugated the kings named Kutsa, Atishageva and Aayurma to the great and young king Susravya. 
O lord and lord agni! When will you see us? You accept the havi that is given by revering your name again and again. The host gives pleasure by getting a lot of happiness and having strength and by getting growth. 
Take Indra and Sita and Pusha protect her. Let the earth become watery and give us crops in the years to come. 
The famous word of the yama, squeezed and consumed, removes the sacrificial dog. This stotao! Just as the Bhriguvanshis killed the Bhaga before, so you kill the dog that hinders that yajnakarma. 
Brahma was born first. After that the power broadened. That power illuminated the expressed world. That power illuminated the latent world. Sat is the original place of its feces, feces and ashes. (3)
The agni that destroys demons with its sharp ness, that agni saves us from demons, vampires, etc. (2)
Varuna troubleshoots the evil. We ask for the fruit of opinion from those guides Varuna. Our stota mind gives a heartfelt praise to those Varunas. They deserve the same praise Varuna to be true to us. O earth and sky! Know our point. 
O agni! Ritwij etc. ignite you on the altar. By inviting you 
O Indra with shobhan force! We squeeze somras out of your wish. O Indra worthy of being called by praise! We wish you. O lord of the horses! Be satisfied with the kushas laid down in the present yajna in the Ganrupa with the maruts. 
O Shobhan-tej wale Adityao! Give a very long life to our sons and characters and to our lives. 
I beautify the agni of Nityatarun, the master of the people, the poet, the eater of all the wives and who does many deeds. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come before us, increasing this yajna with Jupiter Dev and mantras. This yajna should be beneficial for the host. This sacrifice should be good for Ashwini Kumars and Jupiter. (12)
Savita Dev is the one who publishes everyone. They illuminate the intellect and heaven. They completely expand their vast light. (3)
It is not known whether this particular creation from where it is born, whether the creator holds it or not. He who is in the universe, the creator of this creation,  whether knows or not. 
O Annaswamy Ashwinikumaro! Pay attention to the praises that are made for you. Just as the messenger prays to listen to his sender, so we pray to you. 
O God of Agni! We brought Surya for you with gifts. You give us a wife with children. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Do not destroy my well-intentioned yajna, but come near to it when you hear praise. You come in the morning with defense tools and make the devotees happy by eliminating the opponents. 
Hey Ritvijo! You water the warlike and the most sweet Som like a war on dasapavittra made of sheep's hair for Indra. 
Held in bondage by hundreds of desires, and driven by lust and anger, they strive to accumulate wealth by unjust means, all for the gratification of their senses.
Those mighty Indras make us even more powerful. May the charitable Indra remove our faults by all his defense means. 
The showerers and the specialist som were located in Jhuloka. Som flashed the strings in Dulok. The poet and king Som goes to the dashapavittra. Those who see humans milk the elixir of heaven while doing the word Som. 
Sages named Manglik should get this sacrifice well. (28)
Gayatri's verses were the helpers of agni and the tropic verses of Savita. Som was filled with anushtup verses and the bright sun with uvattha verses. The great verses resorted to the words of Jupiter. 
O Indra! You had protected the sage Kuts in a terrible battle with the Shushna Asura and killed the Sambar Asura to save the Divodas who welcomed the guests. You crushed the great asura named Arbud with your feet. Thus you seem to have been born to bandit. 
These herbs and humans irrigate five waters. The cow, which gave the child for the first time, gave nectar milk for Indra. With the same milk, Indra satisfied the gods, humans, sages and asuras. (24)
I present this evil self before the terrible commandments of the gods. (2)
 O Indra! We invite you, the host, to increase our food. You are a mountain dweller, satpati and britrahanta. The best remember you in times of adversity. 
The way the boat flows down when the bond is broken, my enemies should go down in the same way, because those who run away injured by the arrow do not come back. (12)
O Indra! Both your ears are going to listen to the talk around, so listen to our call quickly. Place our praises in your mind. Just as the words of a friend are remembered, so also keep these praises of ours with you. 
Humans assume the white agni in the main place. Fire accepts service rendered by humans. They are so bright for the welfare of human beings that the enemy cannot tolerate them. 
I win all my dreams. I am about to defeat them, that's why I take control of these brave Indras and others in the family. 
 O Mon! You are pure and wavy. Please become more capable and enter Indra's stomach. Just as lightning drives clouds to rain, in the same way you shower wealth on earth. You make us wise, rich and prosperous. 
 Just as the mother increases the baby's body with her milk, so increase our praises of Soma. They reside in Indra's heart. 
O Rudra Dev! Protect us from all sides, in every way, with your bow. Don't hold your arrows for us. (12)
O Sahartu Indra! If you want to make us happy, give us welfare and soothing money, give us food and give us strength. 
 O Indra! You get up with oz. Raise your chin. You drink this somerus to show energy in war. 
The ancients, the gainers of wealth, who are cleansed in the water as soon as they are born, those who are disposed of with the help of stones, those who protect from enemies, the king of beings, and those who leave for the yagnakarma, the ways of the soma hosts. 
We praise the agni, the protector of the host's wealth, which is located among the people who are full of enemies and prone to killing. 
Indra, listening to my praises and calls, bring your protective equipment and food here. (2)
May the ancestors of the above seven generations protect me in this Vedukta Paurohita karma, in prestige in resolve, in devavan karma and in action as a blessing. (15)
O king! The arrow of the brahmin's speech is as terrible as the arrow and serpentine extinguished in poison. Those who suffer sinful Brahmins, Brahmins destroy them through them. (15)
The name of the agni on which the gods sit like heaven on the Kushas near the agni-related brightness is Bharga. The name of the agni is Jatveda. O home-endowing agni! You are going to call the sacrificial gods. Listen to our call without anger. 
Just as a hinning horse is raised by a mare, so people with kushik gotra increase agni every day. May the agni that awakens in the godless beings give us wealth with the best children and the best horses. 
O King Varuna! I don't have to say my poverty in front of a rich and charitable man. I don't lack the money I need for life. We will receive shobhan's son-grandson and do many praises in this yajna. 
That sun-based God is our sustainer, birth-giver and brother. He knows the places of heaven and all the beings who are found there. The only one who names Indra adi devas or he himself wears the name Indra etc. This type of God is attained by all beings asking what kind of God that God is. (3)
Death is certain for one who has been born, and rebirth is inevitable for one who has died. Therefore, you should not lament over the inevitable.
We praise the Indra that our slutes and ukathamtras have enhanced. We serve Indra with a desire to enjoy many of his purusharthas. 
 O Indra! You are powerful. Varun is the king. Deserts are strong. You are the destroyer of enemy's deras, with great mind and victory. May the chants of the gods prevail everywhere, echo everywhere. May we get the support of all the gods. 
O very mad mon! You grow from all the parts of the vines and become our friends, having rich grains. 
O god of the earth! You get excited and don't interrupt the man who is near you. Rather, be the one who gets the happiness of this man. Just as the mother covers her son with anchal, cover this man who comes to you from all sides. This will not cause it cold, hot, etc. (50)
Nisha's younger sister Usha gives her place to the elder sister of Usha and leaves. Destroying darkness by the sun's rays, this Usha shines in the world like lightning. 
The desireful Indra has covered all beings with the left part of his body. The one who gives the havi does not make Indra angry. O Indra! Come quickly in front of the honey-fed and pleasing somras and drink it. 
O agni of the utmost praise and of worship! You hear our huge praise! The power and dynamic of the likes of Indra, who is skilled in praising, pleases you with a havya. 
O night! You wear the name Shamya i.e. the one who calms the force of the enemy. The enemies who wish to kidnap my wealth, O night! Come, anguishing the lives of those enemies. My opponent who is visible may not reappear. (7)
O Indra! We, who squeeze the somras, come to you like the water goes down. The hymns laying the kush serve you when the holy somras go to Nikud. 
O all the seers, the seers, the praises and the praise-worthy Mon! Let us see all the charitable deeds and praises of the sakhas and shower us for our welfare. 
O radiant fire! Your fiery flames shave the grass like hair from the earth and go here and there like free horses. At this time, your moving flames are especially graceful while climbing on the mountain of the earth of various forms. 
O Indra Dev of supreme opulence! Destroy the violent mind of the enemy who hates us. Destroy the armament of the enemy who is willing to destroy us. Give us great happiness and keep the weapons that do not fail due to the use of mantras away from us. (4)
O agni! There are many sacrifices in you. Be a prasantraman with all the glory and listen to the praises of the psalms. O golden age! Praise and increase your own body. 
We have done all the famous work. No one can stop us because of the godly power of not losing. When the somras and the praises make us jealous, the vast earth and the sky are also afraid. 
There are three ages of Jamadagni Rishi - childhood, youth and old age. Maharishi Kashyap also has these three stages. I give you all three ages as a demonstration of nectar. (7)
Hey Varun! The age that the hosts ask of you through the divine, I praise you through a powerful psalm and ask for the same supreme age. You pay proper attention by not being careless in this matter. Countless people pray to you. Don't take my age away from me. 
O leader aschinikumaro! Both of you are able to rule the present people in all the three realms because of the force derived from the elixir of Mon in heaven. Come up with the same measures of protection that you made the cows unable to deliver milch to a sage called Shanyu. 
Thus, with a serene, fearless, and unwavering mind, and staunch in the vow of celibacy, the vigilant yogi should meditate on me, having me alone as the supreme goal.
What kind of shobhan praise can inspire the most powerful and present-day Indra in front of us to give us wealth? O hosts! Indra, the lord of wealth such as heroes and animals, etc., we give the praises the property of our enemies. 
 O Mon! You are skilled, mountainous and abundant 
O Rudra Dev! Those who roam in pilgrimages with spears, arrows, etc. in their hands, you make their bows without attachment. You take them away thousands of plans from us. (61)
O son of power, God of agni! The host who brings your sharp light to the yajna-vedi through praise words, hymns and sacrificial means, holds enough food and finds the possessions. 
O agni! Follow our sons and grandsons through your collected and violence-free defense. Remove the wrath of the gods from us and remove our human obstacles. 
O Maruto! You have the same feeling towards all the yagnas. You hold all your water-providings, etc., to get the gods. I call you before Me through the great Psalms so that you may well protect the earth and the sky. 
The agni with a adornment mind begins to grow even before the time of the spread of the beautiful light of the darkness-destroying Usha. O Ashwinikumaro! You go to the host's house. The Sun God is coming with light. 
All the creatures there saluted the sun located in Dulok. Surya was pleased with that greeting. Just as the creatures saluted for the sun of Dyulok, so also greet me. (5)
Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry God who covers the land and stabilizes the water in space, is the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of a learned Brahmin! Make it weak while trembling and tie it with your ribs. (22)
You break the pig and the pig will pierce you. Why do we come to indra's stota? Do you hurt us? You sleep happily. 
Agni is the overswami of flora. May he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in prestige, in resolve, in God's deeds and in the form of blessings. (2)
With the brightness of the sun, they try to be illuminated due to the agni-lighted flames while being called all over the place. At the time that the host says that I squeeze somers for the sake of Indra. Usha is not violent towards him. 
I call the nymph who holds the joy and anger due to victory in gambling and sorrow and anger due to defeat, the nymph who rejoices due to gambling and gives happiness to the tides. (4)
 O Indra! You are powerful, beautiful and bright. The sacrifice of the worshippers is going to give you pleasure. 
O Indra called by many! For you the somras has been squeezed. You come to the yagna quickly by your horses. The best Brahmins have given this somras for you while praising you. You drink it. 
Praise these opulence agnis. May it free you from sin. Through them, you protect yourself by removing Rudra's arrow away. (47)
Hey Mon! Look at each of you and Indra in different ways and wake up. You throw your thunderbolt armament on the demons. 
The horse-carrying, the people who pray for food and the desire for strength call Indra and Vayu with the best praises for the sake of adornment. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
Pusha should drive our cows on a simple path with her right hand and bring back the lost cows. 
Towards Him all the rivers flow, He achieves all the happiness in an uninterrupted manner and grows with the happiness provided by the fortunate gods. Which the Brahmanaspatis accept as friends. 
O very sweet Mon! You tap to sit at the place of yajna and drink to Indra. 
The sun praises him in the afternoon and destroys his death after noon. He who knows this receives the people and animals of prosperity. (5)
O Kapittha i.e. trees and fruits named Cath! When Varuna's virility was not, the Gandharvas got you by digging to get him that power back. We dig the same powerful medicine. (1)
 O agni! You are going to give money to worshippers. They are very dear like friends. Are worthy of worship like guests. Please be happy with our worship. 
Jupiter protects us from sinful enemies in the west, north and south directions. Indra protect us in the east and central part. We friends' friends Indra give us money. 
O Maruto! This army of enemies is coming towards us, struggling with us due to the excess of its force. Destroy it by making it void of duty by Maya inspired by you. Make these enemies such that none of them can recognize each other. (6)
O woman who hates me! I cover the faces of all your pregnant nerves and a thousand arteries with stone and make you infertile. (2)
Indra, Agni and Soma were born wishing for fame. I am also more successful than all beings who want to be successful. (3)
O soulless man! I combine you with the lives of animals with two legs i.e. women and four feet i.e. cows, horses, etc., in such a way that agni is produced from the churning of the forest. O death! I have greeted you for your cruel eye and I also salute for your great strength. (4)
O very young agni! Purodash has been cooked and Sanskrit for you. You consume it. 
Let the relatives of me unguarded and grieved be of thousands of riches. The pleasure of gods gives food. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! You sit on the chariot and come to the yagna. Your chariot is three-wheeled, sweet amritdhari, fast,ashwajut, commendable and has a seating space for three people. He is abundantly opulent and fortunate. Please have a welfare feeling towards all of you and come to our yajna place. 
The bright sun could not even remove the darkness until then that the people who saw the sun and named The Divine Vasurucha started praising their friend Soma. 
Considering his body as Indra, Maharishi Atharva had said that sinless bhaginis please it by increasing it through force. (9)
The camel has three names. (13)
This place is the base of water and the investment of the sea. O agni! Take the second place and go the same path as you wish. 
O your way! With Your help, we destroy the abhichar that kills a man with hunger and kills a man with an excess of thirst. With your help, we also end the lack of cows and childlessness. (6)
The sages who have made such horses with their minds to please Indra, who get into the chariot as soon as they get the command. They should take the spoon etc. made of shami tree and come to this yagna. 
O Mon, being dealt with by the Ritvijs! You come to our cows with the stunning food and the bright food to give us food. 
This host chose today's hot agni. Purodash cooked from Aries for Saraswati Devi. Cooked purodash with chhag for Ashwinikumars. For Indra Dev, Rishabh cooked purodash. Saraswati Devi and Ashwinikumars presented Sura (tart juice of medicines) and Soma to Indra Dev. (59)
 Indra is dear to all. When attacked by the enemies, he attacked them again and defeated his army. He also defeated Krishnasur. Krishnasur was very sharp. He took ten thousand soldiers along and attacked them. Krishnasur was sad for everyone. On the banks of the Anshumati 
O Som who pleases the gods, the special seer and the giver of water! You tap for Indra, Varuna and Vayu, give us money without destruction and call me a devotee of the gods on this vast earth. 
O Indra! You are pleased to hear our praises. By your grace, we become able to conquer the horses of enemies, the good food grains and the hidden wealth through our horses. 
I have come to defeat the enemies with my own swiftness who do all this work. O enemies! I take away your mind, work and organization. 
Brahmins who come in front of the Vasha cow go to it like their own money. Prohibiting them means stopping them harms the owner of the cow. (15)
O agni! Defeat the army of the enemies and drive away those who disturb the yagna. You are ajith, so despise the enemies with your own brightness and give food to the host. 
O Indra praised by many! Be happy in this third house of ours by being rich and rich in food and with Indrani. For your sompan, these days and the deeds of gods and men like agni etc. are certain. 
Covey has fraudulently made a bill in it or the maid has touched the pestle and ulukhal with a wet hand, even then it is auspicious. (13)
O very madman soma! You fill your word in the yajnashala dripping for him to drink with Indra's desire. 
O beautiful and wise Indra! What you have manifested your power to all by killing the vritra was certainly your karma. O Indra! You took over the young wife of Shushna Asura and interrupted the enemies in the war. 
In the begining, everything was surrounded by darkness and there was darkness everywhere. The whole world was unknown as water. The whole world was covered with insignificant darkness. Due to great penance, brahma appeared without any effort. 
All the substances brought and won by killing enemies are ours. We possess truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be free from the loop of vegetation. We wrap his glory, strength, heaven, soul and age and make him fall face down. (19)
Oh, God! Well-mixed stotas make praises and inspire the green som with the help of stones. So sit in the yajna. 
Oh, God! Lift me up the fallen. Protect the one who sins me and make me eternal. 
O Indra! When you were getting very happy to drink the squeezed somras, your thunderbolt swiftly cut off the head of the vritra that was a barrier to the earth and the sky. At that time, the strong sky was also trembling with fear in the words of the vritra. 
Saraswati, Ila and the three indian goddesses who complete our yajna should reside in the yajnashala and follow our yajna innocently to get the havya. 
Tied to the neck with reins, genes, etc., this horse walks from the beg. It overcomes all obstacles along the way. It imitates the yajna and the bir sitting on the horse strikes the enemies (successfully). Swaha for this (horse). (14)
Although we worship different deities by regular and elaborate havan, but O Varuna! That too you get the same. 
The one who insults the vratya who knows in this way becomes the culprit of White, Naudhas, Saptarshi and King Soma. (23)
Shreshtha Usha is endowed with nectar in the dying dharma and is revered with beauty. (2)
May Indra be kind to us. Get our hymn on all days the radiant Som. May Indra bless us so that we can get the wealth contained in friends. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
O Indra! Shaktishlini Mata replied to you, "He who treats you in enmity with you fights like a spectacular elephant on a mountain." 
O Maruto! When you hear the praise, come to the yagna with all the protective means and equip your hymns with hundreds of pleasures on your own. You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
She is the one who has been a protector of wealth and adornment of wealth, defeating the enemies for eternity because of the people maruts. 
They are very rich, wealthy and vrithrahanta indra are going to protect and stay ahead in the wars. 
On the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair, seven rivers meet the green-colored mons, purifying from all sides by juice. Great men inspire the meritorious Mon to go into the waters of space. 
O Jupiter! You are the sustainers of all gods. Come to give you all. You come to Saraswati to suit us. You give us good luck. You adapt to us by merely invoking us. (3)
 O Indra! You are going to destroy ninety-nine hideouts of enemies with the help of your arms. You are the destroyer of Vritrasura. Please give us the splendour of your choice. 
The famous, the golden chariot that scares the enemies and the one who kills the enemies, may Saraswati desire our adornment. 
O garhapatya agni! Whose strange sacrifices do you rejoice at this time? Your praises are beneficial to the cows. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! At the time of the sun rising, in the middle of the day, in the evening and day at night, you come. Please come with your protective equipment. These means of yours are happy day and night. So far the act of drinking somers without you has not been started. 
In the air, the air to the revered water animal is the violent of the holy Brahmin, Rohit Dev! You tie it to the shaons. (20)
The agni intensified by the guardians and havans of the people, when they are located in the house of the yagyakar, are well pleased and eliminate all the demons. 
O air! You, with all the praises, come to drink the som through your annadata rath, as the lord of the horses and the helper of Indra. 
The Puranas, history and praiseworthy stories of human beings followed him. (11)
The hosts who attained divinity completed the yajna through an end. The deeds of agni were their main deeds. Those important gods attained heaven. There are the arrogant ancient gods of life. (1)
Surely, one who knows the seven madhus of Brahman becomes a honey man and the tenth Madhu is Brahman besides Brahmin, king, cow, bull, paddy, barley. (22)
May the sages who compose the three verses get this sacrifice well. (19)
 O agni! You are capable of ears. You accept our prayer. Along with agni, friends and gods like Aryama should also sit on the misrule of the yajna. 
O Usha Devi! Always rise for us by becoming a welfare worker and full of many horses, cows, sons, grandsons etc. O Usha Devi! May you always protect us from your imperishable riches by providing water and having all the qualities. (7)
O Aghnya! May the one who kidnaps you receive the realms of Yama and the houses of sin. (3)
Hey Aditya! Our yajna is present near you. You make us happy. By becoming your homogeneous, we will always be your devotees. 
O mighty, human-loving, calling upon gods and the famous agni! The hosts who extend the yajnas in the yajnashalas praise you. 
I praise the shrutaksha sage Indra enough to get the horse, sing and abode. 
Enemies can not destroy me, who give the best of havya or praise to agni. Agni wish me the best hymn and accept the words given by the yajman. 
O agni! Don't make us childless. Don't give us bad clothes and bad intelligence. Don't give us hunger and monsters. O true agni! Don't kill us in the house or in the forest. 
O Savita Dev! You are gold-tongued and well-being. You protect our homes from all sides. You protect us. Sinners cannot take over us. We bow to you again and again. (84)
For the person to whom Jupiter tied this gem to get as fast as air, this gem should provide horses daily and again. O host! With their help you destroy your enemies. (11)
Hey leaders! The young woman of the sun had climbed on your chariot with delight. May your beautiful, bouncy, dynamic and stunning horses take you to your house. 
In the yajna called Narasans, the stotas are worshipped by the stotas with high-watered Dyava-Prithivi, Yama, Aditi, the giving of wealth, the tvastha, the Ribhugana, rudra's wife, the marudgana and vishnu with four limbs of agni. 
O mighty Indra! At the time when you protect the saints' hymns, let your glory permeate the Praiser. O furious Indra! At the time when you are holding a thunderbolt in your hand, you become fierce by karma and become intolerable to the enemies. 
Hey Usha! Our magnanimous and wealthy people and we wake you up today. Oh morning goddess! You make the world affectionate. O Gods! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
Hey Aditya Devo! You complete your yajna and give us the favorite house to protect human beings. We ask for the welfare of our animals, children and life from the ignited agni. 
This Indra, Vishwe Dev and Bhuvan try to get happiness. May indra come with adityas and give strength to our yajna, body and children. (1)
Two cows in the form of the host and his wife go near the same calf in the form of agni while serving efficiently. Both of them are free from scandalous defects, creating the paths of agni and possessing all kinds of knowledge. 
O agni! Protect us from all demons and unsung people and save us from enemies in war. O nearest and dearest agni! We worship you for yajna siddhi and self-growth. 
They squeezed and give all the money related to jhuloka, bhulok and space to the Som Hvidata host. 
O agni! The hosts from whom you convey havi to the gods perform yajna by your grace. Those hosts attain eternal (permanent) and favored wealth. Swaha for agni. (29)
O act! We know the joints of your bones. We have swords made of good iron in our homes. It is good that you go from here to our enemy soon. We don't know you. What do you want here? (20)
Arjun said: You were born much after Vivasvan. How am I to understand that in the beginning you instructed this science to him?
O indra of many deeds! You are the protector of the host who squeezes the somras and the one who lays the cushions. O gentleman, Indra! Drink the part of somras that the gods have fixed for you by defeating all the enemies and the vets and victorious in the midst of the waters. 
O day and night! You are opposite of each other and walk with a beautiful purpose. Both night and day are protected by the sons of fire and sun. From near the night, the sun receives food in the form of a havi and the second appears to be of bright light from near the day. 
O man! Do not follow the messengers of Yamraj, that is, do not die. You live here with all your family members. (6)
Indra connects the shisha and the torso even in the absence of the connecting fluid even before the blood is released when the shisha is cut. Indra, the lord of wealth and many riches, improves different parts. 
O leader Indra and Air! You come to drink the som you met gavya with the appointed ones today. 
The Kanvagotriya sages have made Indra a means of yajna through hymns. That is why he is called the brother of yajna. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! You are the richest of the wise. You are the creator of rivers, beautiful and rich. 
I praise the agni. They are priests of the yajna, possessing the best qualities, who call the gods to the yajna and wear the gems of the results of the yajna. 
O demons, Jupiter! Come to us sitting on the chariot, conquering your enemies. You destroy the enemy armies, kill the opposition warriors and protect our chariots and get growth. 
May the earth, agni and sun provide me with a protective shield to those who want to fight. The enemy army could not reach us or our king secretly. (4)
He who knows this, he gets water. He receives reverence and rain. (3)
O brave Indra! You're the same as the army even when you're alone. You take away the riches of the enemies and increase your little praiseor. You give the required money to the somarsadata who performs the yajna, because you have a lot of money. 
We measure this crematorium well, so that we do not get cremation work in the middle before a hundred years. (39)
Oh Ashwini kumars! Just as a bird's wing gets separated, the wife of the Khel king, Vishpala's leg was cut off in the war. You had made an iron leg overnight for Vishpala to walk in order to get the wealth hidden by the enemies. 
O Satyasheel, Dhanaswami and Indra who is not suppressed by anyone! You destroy many monsters. O indra who holds a whar in his hand and is very powerful! You give the money to the paying host to go in front of you. 
May the one who protects both the tiger and the vightika, who also protects the wolf, who protects the fallen eagle, who protects the lion, the same (Shakti) who protects the hosts as well. (10)
I call the sun, which has the glory of suppressing others, the conqueror of the enemies, the conqueror of heaven, the conqueror of the enemies' cows, etc. and the conqueror of the waters, through the deeds of morning, midday and evening. By the grace of those Indra form Sun, I should be dear to people like me. (5)
O juicy Mon! You identify us, and shower us of all forms from space and give us all kinds of wealth. 
O Samidha! We sanctify you by being favored in the yajna. O Vedika! You are also necessary for yajna. They also sanctify you (by bleaching). O Kusha (grass used in yajna)! We also sanctify you (by bleaching). (1)
The one who praises Pusha as a sattu eater of barley mixed with ghee does not have to praise the other deity. 
 O agni! Your light is knowledgeable. You keep spreading that light. You are brilliant and capable of destroying all the sins of the world. You stop us from committing rape and protect us. You accept our sacrifices. You hold a sense of well-being towards us. 
O air! You plough one, two, three, ten, twenty, thirty, three hundred and as many horses as you want and leave your chariot for the desired work. (33)
I make you all with the same thoughts by engaging you together in doing one work and using the same food and subduing you through harmonious deeds. Just as the mind of Indra and other gods, who protect nectar in heaven, remains the same, in the same way I make you equal mind at all times. (7)
The rural animals which are of all forms and various forms, but are often of one form, may the Air God first free them. Being unanimous with his subjects, Prajapati should also free this animal later. (4)
Oh, God! Please, please, let us not suffer from the sin sin committed by others. O Vasuo!  Let's not do the work for which you refuse. O God! You are the master of all. Let our enemy destroy his own body. 
O Parth, happy are the warriors to whom such opportunities to defend righteousness come unsought, opening for them the stairway to the celestial abodes.
Indra made a web of the sky and made the directions of the earth a stick and taunted it. Indra challenged the armies of demons and destroyed them with this trap. (5)
 O Indra! You are good-minded. You are the satpati. You are the best guide. We worship you for happiness and welfare in the same way as the chariot is circumambulated. 
O Indra! There are many words of praise in you. The broad ideologies of the psalms emanate from you. The praises, mantras and worship of ancient and present sages are more than each other about Indra. 
Shutting out all thoughts of external enjoyment, with the gaze fixed on the space between the eye-brows, equalizing the flow of the incoming and outgoing breath in the nostrils, and thus controlling the senses, mind, and intellect, the sage who becomes free from desire and fear, always lives in freedom.
Cows for Vajradhari Indra milk at the time when Indra drinks the sweet and delicious Someras kept nearby. (6)
Make a man who drinks the juice of earth-related substances as strong as Indra Adi Dev Dev Bhag Devta. May the Sun give this man a long life. May Aditya and Jupiter, the motivators of all, give it a sharp. (1)
Varun also takes pity on the perpetrator of the crime. I will become sinless by increasing the vows related to the humble Varuna. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O fatherly angirao! You are like our father. You brought out the cows stolen by the pangs from the mountain. You destroyed the asura named Bal by performing yajna for a year. You get longevity. O Angirao! You accept my son of Manu at this time. I will do your yajna well. 
O Indra! Come to us and bring the cows towards us. You sing to us. We drink the milk of cows that live longer. 
O agni! You are omniscient. Please convey our blessings to all the gods in the sacrifice given by us for Indra Dev. (22)
Deserts with fierce, rain-resistant and powerful arms make no effort to protect their bodies. O Maruto! The bow and arrow on your chariots are fixed. You are the one who wins in the army's front. 
Indra Dev is the beauty of the world. They are happy for us. They are happy for the two legs and four-legs. (8)
The gods appointed Ishan, who was wearing a bow, as the ritual performer to protect him from the corners of all directions. (14)
O awake Mon! You tap. Hey Mon! You drop the juice down for Indra and give us the bright and knowing force of all. 
O agni! All the woodwood that I provide for you, worthy of yajna and unfit for yajna, should be beneficial to me, that is, my welfare from them. O very young agni! You accept the wood wood given by me. (3)
O God! Injure the heart of the panai with iron rod. Create in his heart a loving desire for charity and bring it into our control. 
 O Brahmins! You worship agni. For the success of yajna, you have to do this worship. He is the great splendor, the shining, the superior and the head of the yajna. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra! You are the drinker of somras, so come to the somras that we have squeezed with the help of horses called Hari. 
What then to speak about kings and sages with meritorious deeds? Therefore, having come to this transient and joyless world, engage in devotion unto me.
May Indra and Agni be peacemakers for us by their means of protection. May Indra and Varuna, who receive Havya from the hosts, be peace givers to us. May Indra and Soma be the cause of peace and happiness for us. May Indra and Pusha be our peacekeepers in war. 
The mantras of rigveda were fibers of length to weave it and the mantras of Yajurveda were diagonal fibers. (6)
Hey home! Don't be afraid and tremble. We come to you to be energetic . We enter you with pride. We the best intelligent enter you without suffering. (41)
O girl! You ride on a boat full of means of luck and without destruction. With the help of this boat, you get your desired husband. (5)
O unbeatable and brilliant friend and Varun! You come to drink mon listening to our hymns. 
The oz, tej, brahma, vani, senses, lakshmi, dharma, vedas, kshatra shakti, nation, havi, yasha, might, wealth, age, form, name, fame, eyes, ears, milk, juice, food, agni, truth, ishta, purta, praja etc. of that Kshatriya are all taken away. Who kidnaps a Brahmin cow. He reduces his age. (2)
This host has agnis that are unstoppable, ruling over enemies, with flames worthy of worship, purifying white, fast-paced, filling the people, living in the forest and moving like Som. 
O Rich Indra! You consume money at the time of the department of great and little money. Both your hands are full of wealth. Your voice doesn't stop the arms. 
O Indra and Agni! I have heard that you are going to give more money than you give for the benefit of the meritorious girl child or for the benefit of the good groom. That's why along with giving you squeezed monstrosity, I also create this very new praise. 
O Shur Indra! The sage Gritsamd praises you in the same way as he clears the path that he wants to go. O latest Indra! May we, who desire your praise, may we have food, strength, happiness and a good abode. 
O Shur Indra! Describing the qualities of squeezed somras, I have come back impressed by your wealth. O you of praise Indra! The yajnakars knew your presence near you and your efficiency. 
Brahmins who wake up and live by performing yajna vidhi, they attain the ultimate abode of Brahmin Vishnu Dev. (44)
Be ready together to give money etc. to Vishvedev Manu with equal anger. Let them give money for me and my son today and on other days. 
O century! You have protected the kings of Narya, Turvash, Yadu and Turvati, who were born in the Vyaya family. You have protected the chariots and sages in the struggle that began with the aim of gaining money and have destroyed the ninety-nine cities of SambarAsura. 
O Vajradhari Indra! You wish for your growth on every praise, so these mantras make you grow like water. (2)
The bright, the giver of food, the seer of all and the seers of all and the knowers of the fasts and the armaments, the Mons give food out of the desire to feed the hosts. 
 O Mon! Agile like a horse, the host 
Oh, my! You burn the enemies by igniting like agni. O tolerant and called manu! Be our general in combat. Kill the enemies in battle and give us their wealth and kill the enemies, giving us strength. 
O yajnakarta adhwaryujano! Whatever you want, he will get immediately on giving somras to Indra. O yajnako! Provide for Indra by bringing the squeezed somras with hands. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! During Indra's war with namuchi rakshasa, you protected Indra by drinking the blissful someras. (4)
O house made of stone! You are mine. The sinner who wants to kill is willing to destroy me from the south direction, he himself should be destroyed by coming here. (2)
When the war begins, the victor receives the wealth of his losing enemies. O Indra! Add horses that erase the pride of enemies to your chariot. You kill the king who is alienated from your service and donate to the service- payer, so give us money. 
The deserts are water-pouring, the builders of rivers like the clouds, the destroyers like the thunderbolt, the eternal devotees like the destructive thunderbolt, the adornment mothers, the children-like playful and the radiant when walking like a huge pool of water. 
Hey Mon! Keeping all the praises in mind, you should tap for food gain. O You are the doers of the gods and the chief of all the gods, The Mon! You hold the sea exclusively. 
May the radiant Visvesvardeva give us peace. Give us peace with Saraswati Yajnakamo. May the yajna and the donors give us peace. May heaven, earth and space give us peace. 
The sun, which attracted ten thousand rays, came to the earth and stood with its oz and started doing violence to the earth with its power. Then Indra removed the sun with his force and protected the earth and with his power, Indra established the powers of water on the earth.
Fascinated by the pride of knowing the nature of yajna and considering the pandits who drink soma in addition to himself as ignorant, the one who considers himself as a great sacrifice in the battle and who despises the enemy warriors suffers as a prisoner. O Vishwakarma! Redeem that sinner from sin to get welfare. (3)
O agni! In your best birthplace we will serve you and delight you with the praise groups when you are located below the sky. You will also worship the sub-continent, that is, the earth from which you were born. There when you are ignited, you give a havan. 
O agni! You carry the will. You are immortal. You ignite yourself. You are messengers of the gods. You are friendly. Please wear a havan and deliver it. (16)
Yajna first originated as a ghost and future. All that Rochman is, it was revealed from the earth. Rohit confirmed it. (55)
This is the hymn! Inspire aryama, jupiter, indra, vayu, vishnu, saraswati and the mighty savita to donate. 
The vultures remove the eyes of the Kshatriya who takes the brahmin's cow. (1)
Whatever purpose is served by a small well of water is naturally served in all respects by a large lake. Similarly, one who realizes the Absolute Truth also fulfills the purpose of all the Vedas.
O Indra! The world beneficial to beings is located around. You see him with the help of sunlight. This world is yours. You are the only owner of the cows. We enjoy the money you have given us. 
The father without a son knew that the son of this girl would be my son, went to him according to the scriptures, serving the son-in-law who was able to produce a son. The husband of such a girl takes care of happiness in her and gives her semen, not to produce a son. 
O leaders Indra and Varuna! If you are pleased with Me, come with your divine means of protection and listen to My call. Your friendship and brotherhood are a means of happiness. Give them to us. 
Abandon all varieties of dharmas and simply surrender unto me alone. I shall liberate you from all sinful reactions; do not fear.
In all the times, the present Indra should speak as our partisan and let us be a unsustainable motion and consume the food in the form of havya. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky should worship him. 
The wind has established the agni, worthy of sacrifice, meritorious, praiseworthy and inhabiting paradise by bringing it to the earth. We ask for new money from the same strange-moving, yellow-rayed and beautiful, bright agni. 
O New Moon! Apart from you, no God is going to pervade all the present beings at this time. May we receive the fruit we desire and become the masters of wealth. (4)
 O Indra! Your cows are very beautiful in color. They are going to increase truth and sacrifice. They drip 
Indra has risen repeatedly to do heroic work. The major and slightly less Indra gives wealth to the stomatas and is more than the earth and the sky. Only half of them is equal to the earth and the sky. 
O Deepthishalini, ushadevi of shobhan birth, who gives ass and gives her true success by listening to praise! To get us more wealth, wake up as you did before. 
Hey mon who loves us! You come to protect all our riches by power and protect the houses of our children. 
That virat reversed and he approached the Gandharvas and apsaras. The Gandharvas and the nymphs invoked him and said, "O virtuous smell, come." (5)
O friend and Varundev! In your yajna this pujaform has been praised. Destroy all our sorrows by accepting it. 
O Indra! It is true that the eulogists have possessed in you a force like the sun.  O Sage Indra! You along with Vishnu destroyed the water-stopping vritra. 
 O agni! You are worthy of praise, omniscience and omniscient. We use our prayers as chariots to convey our reverence to you. Worshiping you intensifies our intellect. Your friendship is capable of liberating us from suffering. 
Soma gets beauty from the water that he receives from heaven. In the birth of the gods and in every yajna, this Soma matures with this heavenly water. (55)
 Everyone knows that somers is worth consuming. It has been filtered and prepared. It has been filled in matkas for Indra. Someras gives indra, who wants to win, a lot of enthusiasm in wars. 
The body of the vritra is not even visible nominally by drowning in the water that does not stop at one place. Vritra, who hates Indra, is immersed in eternity and water is flowing over it. 
O sing! You come to me Goswami's gaushala. This gaushala is going to nourish you. Due to the wealth of fodder, you should be with me forever. (6)
O poison of evil flesh! You are a fat burner and the father of abdominal diseases. This man ate you as karambh (rice). Don't make this man faint. (3)
O shobhan karmapalakarta ashwinikumaro! Protect us also by the intended protective action by which you both protected the kanva. O sacrificial gods! Do sompan. 
The Indra who is going to fulfill our desires, the Indra whom we admire, the enemies become frightened as soon as they come close to Indra. All the creatures of the world salute Indra. (6)
O Indra! Destroy all worms that move quickly, torment, torment, to stagger, to sharp worms, to be visible or not visible. (7)
Fire is willing, holy, loveless to the wicked and with superior intelligence. They are immortal and fulfilling the wishes of human beings. Their smoke goes upwards. They are bright. Fire spreads its beauty to heaven. (24)
At the time when prana i.e. Sun God wets the earth on all sides with rainwater, at that time cows etc. animals are happy that there will be celebration for us with the excess of grass. (5)
This work generated by Jangir Mani Shru is going to solve the demon and is a means to destroy the enemy. This jangid gem is equipped with the power of the above mentioned tasks. It will increase our age. (4)
O snake! I mix your upper and lower teeth. I also mix the top and bottom parts of your kodi. I mix one of your tongues with the other. I also mix the upper and lower parts of your mouth. (3)
O Manu! Come before us and stay on our right side and work as our secretary. After this, we will destroy many enemies. We give you the essence of the sweet someras we hold for you. Both of us should first drink somers in such a way that no one knows. (7)
O Indra! In ancient times, there has been no one more brave, rich, attacking enemies and praiseworthy than you. 
 O agni! You give the best results to the one who gives havi like the waves of the sea. You are rich and beautified with flames. 
I have received the horses given by the sons of Raksh and Ashwamedha, as well as the horses given by Indrat, the son of the pure yajnakarma and the guestman. 
Indra grew up with the help of the Maruts. Indra cut off the head of the vritra and created the water of space. 
Mother Earth and daughter Dau together like milk-giving cows in space feed each other their juices. I praise the earth-sky in the middle of space, the place of water. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O Ritwijo and the hosts who gave the havi to Indra! Inder give you a radiant force and gemstone for you and for the psalms. You worship Indra. 
Hey Mon! We serve you well every day. That's our job. Our hope is not in any other place other than you. 
They should not speak harsh words to the gentlemen. O very great Indra! Complete the sky with your light. (2)
 O ladies! O spaceland! The host is your friend. You fulfill the wishes of the host. You complete the yajna. You give full support to the yajna. 
O self- We know all your family members and also the master you have at this time. Protect your family and those who know the master for yajna or food in this context. Those who hate us, you go away with them to the distant land. (6)
 The desert is blissful. They drink sweet somers and grow food. They are stunning and fast moving. They take Indra to the Yagyavedi. 
The swan, that is, the sun, the life of the world, does not raise one of its phases i.e. part above the water while rising from the water. If they raise their second phase too, there will be no division of time. Then they will not be able to go anywhere or be day and night. (21)
O hosts! Fire is Brahma and Yajna. You follow the brat towards them. Banaspatis are worthy of yajna. We believe in the goddess of wisdom. We worship for the fulfillment of happiness and desire. We want to wear yajnawahi speech. May the best intellect remain in our arms. The deities who grow in the mind (faculty etc.), put the mind (in the resolution), the deities who are of efficient resolve, please protect them in the Dev Yagya. May those gods please protect us. Swaha to all those gods. (11)
 Somers, prepared by digging and filtering, enters the dronalash like entering the house of the host's animal etc. The luminous Someras is as bright as gold and the luminous one meets the gods. 
Arjun inquired: What are the characteristics of those who have gone beyond the three guṇas, O Lord? How do they act? How do they go beyond the bondage of the guṇas?
O father! Hello to your anger. O father! Salutations to your manu i.e. outrage. (82)
But persons, whose sins have been destroyed by engaging in pious activities, become free from the illusion of dualities. Such persons worship me with determination.
It was! Establish your praiseworthy voice in Indra. They are the only refuge for humans with knowledge. After the word 'Swadha', they are also given the auspicious food. Just as the farmer accepts ripe barley, so Indra accepts our happiness. 
O Indra! Vrushakpi received the money of the enemy destroyed near him. Apart from this, he took asi, suna and new charu. Those inders are the best. (18)
O agni! You are raised by the host. Then again and again they are raised by the host. These hosts perform yajna for heaven and for the world. O agni! Swaha for you. (22)
We worship Satpati, dhansheel, vaibhavvan Savrita Dev. We worship Savita Dev to satisfy the gods. (13)
O Indra! In yajna, I will not make you angry by squeezing the somras and pleading with you always through praise. You are as awesome as the one who feeds you all and the lion. Who is it that the master of all does not ask you? 
May the society of scholars and the group of warriors who fight protect me. May those two daughters of Prajapati, who created the whole world, protect me. I should be compatible with those who are unanimous about protecting me and scholars should come near me and teach me. O members! Along with those who support what I said by saying 'sadhusadhu', I should give a just reply in the debates. (1)
O Indra! After you were born, you were located in the best place and drank som for pleasure. When you entered the earth and the sky, at the same time you became an archaic one and became the vidhata of karma. 
The sages are known to be the food of the air, the friends of the air and the gods. They live in both the East and West Seas. 
O Savita! You rise. O Savita with gold hands! Listen to our hymn to fulfill our desire. You create vast and unlimited wealth and give man-consuming money to the stoetas. 
 O Mon! The refined somers is kept in three vessels. Friends, Aryama and Varuna please drink it. 
 O Indra! Please come to our yajna and listen to both our kinds of speeches. You are strong and prosperous. Please be pleased with our worship. You come to our yagna to do sompan. 
We have saved the Vedas from the original base form, we have saved the Vedas through yajna work. We establish the Vedas at the same place. The sacrificial deeds that we have done from the Vedas, the power of God, O Gods! Follow me by the fruit of that deed that you desire. (1)
The one who studies the Vedas pervades both the earth and the sky through his penance. All gods like Indra have mercy on this brahmachari. This brahmachari wears the earth and heaven with his penance and follows his master by walking on the right path. (1)
The yellow and squeezed mons get their place on their way to Indra. 
Mixed with water and milk, the shaktidata and the instigator of the waters are squeezed for Som Indra. 
 O Indra! Apart from you, who has the ability to till these horses in your chariot? Your horses are capable, get speed with the help of the axis of the chariot. You are angry and happy with enemies. Only the one who feeds your horses takes life. 
O agni! You consume our havya and come to our yajna with the gods. Let us be servants of the God of Fire. You always protect us by means of welfare. 
We connect mind and intellect with God. Brahmins connect their minds with the vast omnipresent God. God is omniscient. would hold them. Savita Dev is welcome. worship them. (2)
 O agni! We invite you to gain force. Please insult the unfriendly. 
In the state where the Brahmin's wife is captivated and stopped, the hero of that state cannot go beyond The Suna even after wearing a gold ornament named Nishka. (14)
This is the hymn! Praise the famous, sitting on the chariot, young, as terrible as an animal, an enemy and a fierce Rudra. Hey Rudra! We protect the praises. Let your army destroy others besides us. 
O Indra! Your devotees and sinless hosts take wives along and perform yajnas giving you a greater amount of havya than they want to satisfy you. Those who love cows and want to go to heaven do yajna for your purpose to get many cows. You have created the willful and companion Vajra that you have created with you. 
 O praisers! Agni is the sustainer of yajna and truth. They are great fast ones. You praise such a great protector Agni. 
Garuda brought Intoxicating Som to Indra. Indra also buried the head of the rowdy Namuchi and saved the life of a sage named Nimi, the son of Sai, while sleeping, and also provided him with wealth, food and welfare. 
O god of wisdom and knowledge, admired by many! Give us the money for which we praise you for the purpose of getting you. You're famous. 
The host who gives quick food to this agni and confirms the havan with havya and ghee, the agni sees it with thousands of its flames. O agni! You all kinds live friendly to us. 
Hey, Lord! You were made gods by Shobhan Kamo and sat in paradise like a vulture. You give strength, son and gems. O sons of Sudhanva! You were without death. 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages near the upottam i.e. the best. (11)
Our feet plough the earth with pleasure. Walk happily with the halwahi bulls too. Let the clouds moisten the earth with sweet water. O Shun and Sir! Give us happiness. 
O agni! You are the true nature. Let us also find that true nature of you. That is, you also grow it in our body. We can get this discipline from you. Offer sacrifices for you. You are the god of the bright, the moon, the elixir and all. (18)
O Indra who accepts praises! When will your hymn be very happy? When will you keep us in a house with cows and ashes? 
O agni! The sage Vatsagotriya calls you from your best abode. They wish us by their praise. 
O Indra and Agni! The helper of the hymn, the instrument of yajna and the somras that make the senses rejoice goes to you. Drink this squeezed somras. 
The host who gives more food to the Ashchinikumaras while dividing the yagna, follows his offspring through yajnakarmo. Fires perpetually commit violence when they remain unexplored. 
O mon of great deeds! You hold the earth properly. O Pawman Mon! You wear armor with importance. 
O agni produced by force, illuminated, desireful and desirable agni of the human being! Daksha's daughter Ida i.e. yajnabhoomi holds you. 
He was! You perform yajna for Indra Dev. The goddesses increased their age and purity. We give life to them. They hold money for us. Please give us money. Please do yajna for them. (36)
The demons who obstruct my karma fruit. May this agni god interrupt them, that is, stop them. Don't let kravyad and vampires exploit us. We run away, preventing this monster from coming here. Control this monster, Angirus and the Sun. (43)
O Indra! The host gives hundreds and thousands of great comforts every day for your stotha. 
O agni! The host shobhan samaveda wale and sukhsadhan yagya meet intelligent human beings and praise them with praises. You bring present and many forms of food nearby with your own will to protect us. 
The earth that holds the forms of rock, land, stone and dust, such an earth is hiranyavaksha i.e. gold chest. I salute that earth. (26)
O daughter of heaven Usha! Let us wake you up, who act quickly. O dhanswamini usha! A bum carries gems and pleasures for the host just like a huge wealth. 
Those who worship the hosts of adornment, the maruts, and those who serve the rain-bearing maruts with a havya, we are both types of them. O young Maruto! Meet us with the determination to give us money in your mind. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come to this yajna. O nastyo! Don't be indifferent to us. Just as the swan comes near the pure water, so you come to our somras. 
God living in heaven, bring you captive in a foreign kingdom by enemies to your country. Ashwinikumar, make your path zero from enemies. O bind! Serve this king who has re-entered your kingdom. (4)
The work that has been made for you, this gem made from the tree will make it ineffective and will make you fearless. This gem made of divine vegetation will destroy all your sins. (4)
Indra, Varuna, friends, agni, water, herbs and trees listen to our hymns. We will be happy to be near the maruts. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O man! The evil goddess has put a sin trap in all your organs and tied such a rope in your neck, from which it is impossible to get rid of it. I redeem you from that bondage for everlasting, for strength and for glory. You redeemed by me, always eat food with my inspiration. (1)
Those who bring tarpan is agni somiya tarpan. The one who kills the animal in the yajna is the same. (6)
May Mitra Dev, Varun Dev, Aryama Dev be beneficial to us. May Indra Dev and Brihaspati Dev and Jagatpalak Vishnu be welfare for us. (9)
O man! You are tied in a wooden bond, in a rope or in a pit of the earth by the command of the king. May this agni free you from those bonds and attain the world that comes as the fruit of doing good deeds. (2)
O king! May the divine water water water you with its glory, so that you become the enhancer of friends. May Savita Dev, who inspires everyone, give you strength. (6)
We cooked the dog's intestines when there were no eatables. At that time there was no God to protect us. We watched our wife humiliated. Only Indra made us happy. 
When your intellect ceases to be allured by the fruitive sections of the Vedas and remains steadfast in divine consciousness, you will then attain the state of perfect Yog.
This altar is the ultimate end of the earth. This is the navel of yajna. This is the force of the semen of the Som horse. Brahma is the supreme vyom of speech. (62)
O herb called guarpatha! The speaker who consumes you cannot win his opponent. Your nature is to tolerate the enemy, that is why you defeat the defendant. Defeat the opponents who ask me questions. O medicine! Dry the throats of my opposing speakers so that they cannot speak. (1)
O heaven and the earth! Protect me by giving me the power to listen. This havi is well done havan. (2)
Indra said- "Stota praises me ancient Indra in these words that the expansion of me great Indra is more extensive than Duloka. I can destroy thousands of enemies at the same time. The creator has made me enemyless." 
Just as powerful horses together carry on the yoke of the chariot and move forward and lengthen their body. In the same way, these stones, which carry the burden of yajna, become huge and drip someras. They swallow and say words to Som, breathing on the pretext of being down and down in crushing Somlata. Like the word that came out of the horse's mouth, I hear the words of these stones. 
Soma is the one who holds the world, the enhancer of the senses, the one who possesses the juices, the one who possesses the power of adornment and the protector of violence. 
O Indra! With your help, we will be able to take our armed soldiers and conquer the enemy army. 
 O Indra! You can add the neck cords without connecting material even when there is blood. Indra is very splendid. They can reattach the cut parts. 
O Indra, determined to defeat the enemies! Your food is great. By the firm heart that wealth you give us. Go to the lands with the same water fast as our mother. You destroy the vrithra asura who stops the water and conquer yourself. 
 O Mon! You are pure, revered and enlightened. You know everything about the gods. You declare the immortality of them. You make the host praise them. 
O God of Agni! You be united by your force. O agni that nourishes a friend! You be kind to you friends. You are the mediator among the Brahmins born like you and the yajna among the shatris. O agni! This type of you, get illuminated in this yajna. (4)
The wind does not sit quietly on any day while walking through the paths of the sky. Where are the friends of the waters, the first generated and powerful air, born and from where did they come from? 
There is no one to control Indra's shobhan karma. Indra does not donate, no one can say that. 
O enemies, Indra! May God give you the best money. Give you the best money without teeth. 
The goddesses (Soma's form) are the children of nectar, they are welfare vritra destroyers and wealthy. You protect this yajna. You guide this yajna. Please drink someras in this yajna. (34)
There is a wheel with a middle navel. There are thousands of aries in front of it. This wheel is constantly running. Half of this has created the world and where is the rest of it? The sun is a wheel with an navel. His thousand rays are thousands. The day is half of that, due to which the world remains moving. Where does the sun go in the remaining half i.e. at night? (7)
 Soma is the Creator of heaven and earth. They are going to speed up both the worlds. They quickly go to Indra. They come to give a lot of glory to the hosts. 
The only Indra to subdue is said to be the one who follows human beings. O Indra! Be happy to drink somras with those who grow by praise and those who want to be protected. 
O water! Complete the disease-destroying drugs for my body. So that I can see the sun for a long time. 
The speech that comes out of Indra's mouth is truth, with various characteristics, giving glory and cows. For the host who gives the havee in the yajna, the voice of Indra is like a branch laden with ripe fruits. 
Indra, who aspires to fight and adornment, is the most prominent of the charioteers when he goes to war. 
Just as roasted barleys with sattu are purified with soup, scholars speak pure language by thinking in the mind. Scholars at that time know friendships. Mangalkarini Lakshmi is hidden in his words. 
O agni! You are traveling. You should soon consume the demons with your shining flames. With our sacrifice, your flames (high altitude) have increased. You destroy the demons with those flames. (10)
O yajna called Prathamasavan, which has a quick pace like a hawk! There is Gayatri verse in your stotra. I receive you as a base like a stick, so you bring the end of this yajna to me. This wish of mine is the best of sacrifices. (1)
Pleased with the somras prepared by the stones at night and in the day, Indra sharpens the vajra to kill the elusive vritra. Hundreds of rays of the sun revolve in the sky, bringing in days and sending them away. 
We have always praised the land which is powerful, by its defence powers, the one that dispels our mischief, the creator of all, the great and the essence. He should be well-suited to famous and meritorious hymns. 
 O worshiper! You invoke Indra. You praise them. Sing their virtues and think about them. 
 Som is holy, green, nutritious, heroic and full of fine chemicals. They fill heaven and earth with their light. They enter Dronakalash like going to the host's house. 
Hey Mon! When the waters of Vasathivari saw the Gandharva called Vishwavasu with you, the water came up under the influence of virtuous deeds. Indra, who inspired these waters, knows this. They have seen the sun circle around. 
O Indra! Don't let the hosts far away from us be pleased to find you. So come to our yajna from afar and listen to our praise. 
The soms who impart knowledge of the yajna and those who perform shobhan yajna are squeezed. They go to the pure place of the Som devas, become a thousand streams and reach Dronakalash, and the waterers cross the Dashapavitra by saying the word 'Som' and go down. 
O Indra! You are a horse named Hari. You are an enemy. High-speed horses come to take you to the yagna of humans. The hosts worship you with the best prayers of the sages. Somras has been taken in the kalash for Indra Dev. This is the original place for Indra Dev. They have sixteen arts. We embrace you for sixteen arts bala Indra. (34)
From the man's navel came space, from shisha to jhullok, from the steps to the ground and from the ear were produced directions and folk. 
Hey Mon! You protect the hymns in humans. You go to the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair by sorting it out of a cloth. 
O rich year ashchinikumaro! Give us money that neither remote nor near-term humans can steal. 
The way a man goes after a woman. In the same way, Surya goes after Usha Devi. At that time, good people spend their time in God's work and do the best deeds for the sun. (15)
All the gods like Pitar, Devjan and Indra follow him to protect brahmachari. Gandharva also follows Brahmachari. Brahmachari follows all the gods with thirty-three, thirty and six thousand numbers with his tenacity. (2)
With the psalmous, refined and inspired somras, they go towards the dashapavitra like a bird. O bright Indra! Pure soma is squeezed between dyava-prithvivi only because of your yajnakarma. 
O agni! You are as efficient as the moon, as fast as the eagle. You are truthful, gold-winged, powerful, sustenance-giver and great. Shruva (stable), remains in the yajna. O agni! Salutations to you! You suit us. Don't do violence against us. (53)
O Agni! You know all kinds of knowledge, so lead us to the best path that leads us to wealth. Remove from us the evil that creates crookedness. We greet you again and again. 
O Indra! Your body is far away, so it is unpublished for alienated humans. At the time when the frightened Dyava-Prithvi calls you for food, you hold the sky above the earth and light up the waters of your brother Megh. 
O Jathaveda! You burn the demons with your flames by igniting and having sharp teeth like iron. You kill violent monsters with flames like your tongue and cut off the carnivorous monsters and put them in your mouth 
 O Indra! You penetrate the strongholds of enemies. You are vajrabahu, enemy destroyer, conqueror, gopalak, leader and mighty. Follow Indra in angering the enemy. 
Viswedev, who enhances the yagna and listens to hymns on special occasions, accept his worthy milk. 
O thunderbolt! Protect us from this powerful poverty, save us from sin in the near struggle and provide chariots and horse-made money for fame and truthful speech. 
I call for the agni that is born, the knower of the creatures born, the benefactor of the human beings of the world, the comprehensive and the one who carries the energy. May he protect me from sin. (4)
The traces appeared from them and they appeared from the verses. (10)
O Indra! When you destroyed the asuras, seeing your power, Dyava i.e. heaven and earth were kind to you. (2)
 Ushna Rishi is a scholar, supreme scholar, master of Vedic rituals, patient, enlightening and leading. The same Ushna Rishi diligently obtained som rasa, which lived secretly in cows, through stotras. 
At that time, the son of Pandu, Arjun, who had the insignia of Hanuman on the flag of his chariot, took up his bow. Seeing your sons arrayed against him, O King, Arjun then spoke the following words to Shree Krishna.
Indra, the swami of wealth, make me successful. May these two earth and sky make me successful. May Savita Dev make me successful. I should become a success and become the beloved of the one who gives dakshina in village, city etc. (1)
O spectacular Ashwinikumaro! You have expanded your glory by sowing barley in the field of ploughing for the learned Manu, the rain for the food, and the destruction of the bandits by the Bhasman Vajra. 
 O agni! You are a well-informed, complete nourishment 
 O Mon! Your juice is very dear to the gods, the destroyer of demons. Your juice is very pleasing. You come to the urns 
Salutations to the one with a gold-adorned arm. Salutations to Dishapati. Salutations to the fighter. Salutations to the trees. Salutations to the green hairy. Salutations to Pashupati. Salutations to those with a pimple-like color. Salutations to Pathpati. Salutations to the green hair. Salutations to Yajnopabitdhari. Salutations to the master of athleticism. (17)
Oh, cow! Mon who gives money and gold and holds water! You spill the juice. You are a strong person and a knower of all. These hymns worship you with praises. 
O aschinikumaro! Gautama, Purumiddha and Atri rishis take the havya in their hands and call you to please in the same way that pathik calls the one who gives direction with the desire to know the way. You come listen to my call. 
O Brahmaspati! From the havi from which Indra has received everything, we perform yajna with the same havi. You put us in the kingdom. 
May earth, space, deuts, water, medicines, vegetation and all gods get more power than us. We remove the terrible and merciless fruit that is here in this peace process of all kinds. May all of them become calm and give us welfare. (14)
 O Indra! You are going to grow forever. You are fantastic. By what deeds, methods of worship and offerings will you be kind to us? With what divine radiance will you come to us? 
O Sacrificial God! You are a constant source of happiness, a sorrowner, a great friend and a great friend. You are as bright as the sun and deep (serious) as the rising (sea). You are a treasure trove of pleasures. (22)
Oh, Virgo! First mon received you as a wife. After this you were received by Gandharva. Your third husband is Agni and the fourth is human. 
O AshwiniKumar! Please come to the yagna. You adorn the yajna. Please drink milk and juices in the yajna and shower money. (88)
O fasting, all the prayable and soon-to-do Aditiputras! Just as the adulterer throws away the child who is born secretly, so take away my sin from me. Hey friend and Varun! I know the good work you have done. I'll call you to the defense. You listen to my call. 
O God! Yagya Sadan has made it easier for you. You can easily do the work of yajna-consuming. Eligible for you are full of havi. You are bearing havi for. You save money for us. All these sacrifices are dedicated to wealth. (18)
The poison which occurs in a tree called Shalmali and the poison which is born in rivers and herbs, may Vishvedeva remove that poison from us. The snake coming in hiding cannot recognize our footprints. 
Our father is as gentle as Som. Fire is as stunning as agni. Please come to this yajna through suitable routes for the ancestors. Be happy with swadha in this yajna. Please preach to us and protect us. (58)
O Fire and Mon! Give enough money to the host who gives you a whivi containing disgust. 
 O Indra! Those who are allowed to come, those who are papacharis, those who are foolish, they can not harm us. You protect us. Under your protection, overcome many obstacles in the flow of obstacles. 
Protect the host holding the Somras with water year, the immediately generated and commissible Indra Havi. O Indra! From time to time, if you desire sompan, drink the god-mixed mons before all the gods. 
O hosts! Who among you knows the agni inherently in water, forest, etc. i.e. none. It, even being a son, gives birth to its water-like mothers through havan. This adult, fast-paced, and crystalline agni comes out of the sea in the form of the sun, causing the production of many types of water. 
 O agni! Protect us from sins. You are the one of divine glory. You are ajar 
O Swami of food and wealth, Ashwinikumars! At this time, whether you are in the east direction, whether in the west direction, whether you are with Druhyu, Anu, Turvasu and Yadu king, I call you from there. You come to me. 
O God of Tvashta! You are the initiator. You protect the near and dear one. By your grace, the people should be endowed with superior qualities. You are endowed with divine qualities, brightness and capable. May all these qualities be attained by scholars by your grace. We are providing you with delightful havi. Please greet him. (7)
O agni! The enemy who wants to kill us disguised, the enemy who wants to kill us in the form of light and the close brother who knows how to obstruct the other wants to kill us - these three have teeth and painful demons. That is, he came close to them to eat with his teeth. O agni! The house and children of the above three should be destroyed. (1)
O hosts! You sing the virtues of Soma rather than sing the virtues of the gods. 
O agni! Always give cow to me, the host who performs yajna, as a seeker of many deeds. O agni! May we have sons and grandsons and may your fruitful wisdom be compatible with us. 
O Shur Indra! You are pleased to open the gates of the goshala and the horsehouse for the worthy hymns of Somras in the same way as the doors of the enemy citizens. 
 As soon as Usha arrives, red rays have covered the sky. With a chariot plowed on their own, they spread consciousness and serve the sun. 
Just as the moving cows go to their calves, so our voice receives you and waters you. (1)
 O Mon! You are a resident of heaven, a poet and a Brahmin. You communicate your beloved inspirations towards our beloved place 
O nastyo! Come to this yajna. I'll give you a havi. Drink sweet honey from your mouths that drink sweet foods. Usha had already inspired your strange and ghee-strapped chariot to come to our yagna. 
The agnis we used to desire from the heart have come. Know the agni yajna and complete your body. The best agni in the yagnakartas is the home in our yajna. We are sitting in the east of the gods, among the present Agne Devas. 
Yama- It is possible, in the future, such days and nights will come, when the sister will leave her brotherhood and start getting the form of a wife. But that is not happening right now. So O Yummy! You extend your hand to another man who is able to conceive in a woman and wish to leave me and make him your husband. (11)
O burn! The vatsa of water in you is worthy of service by the mantras of Yajurveda and is united with the devas. I send him to my enemies. Those vats of water reinforce me. I cover them with the witchcraft caused by this mantra and the weapon of water. (17)
O Indra and Agni! We don't ask you for money. We perform yajna of all the leaders and most powerful Indra. Indra sometimes comes on horseback to give food and sometimes to receive yajna. Let Indra and Agni kill all the shanrus. 
O Sobhan Bale Wale Mon! You can bring us money containing cows and horses. I mix your holy juice with the milk of the cows. 
 Indra penetrates the clouds and makes special beauty in space. They are pleased with Someras. 
O mighty Indra! You win all wars. If brahmins praise you, give them a steady strength. Those who make the main happy environment sad or those whose movement is bad, they cannot come to you. (4)
Parameshti created the mind in the beginning of creation, which is the root cause of the world. This is what Brahma has said. May we attain peace through the mind through which karma is done. (4)
O darbhamani! Violence my enemies and those who gather army against me. Do violence against all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (4)
O Savita! We perform the ritual of this huge yajna for you. You are a yajnapati. Please protect this yajna and us. (12)
O darbhamani! Destroy my enemies and those who gather armies against me. Destroy those who have ill will towards Me and hate Me. (5)
The organism, which is quick to move for its actions, sleeps and lives peacefully in its domestic body. The body produced with the mortal body is moved by the deathless swadha. 
All gods are meditative and coordinated. May all gods bless us with all the splendour. May all gods give us glory today and to our generations in the future. (94)
Hey Mon! All gods receive you equally pleased. You're the best at drugs. 
With the jangid gem given by the gods of agni etc. and giving happiness, we defeat all the demons who disturb us in our wandering territory. (4)
O servants! Do not destroy the yagnas of Soma, be enthusiastic and do the yajnakarma to get wealth from the great enemy destroyer Indra. The person who works quickly wins, lives in the house and is confirmed. God does not support those who do bad things. 
The place of the sage who gave me the somras is worth keeping the havya. Sitting there, the agni fills the yolok with its flame. 
Those who draw overlay, they inaugurate heaven from it. (9)
O Indra and Agni! In the struggle, the people protected by you destroy the enemy's secured wealth in the same way that the scholar cuts the argument of his opponent. 
O medicine! Make me fortunate with the good fortune that you get the glory of the god who gives you good fortune and despise the nearby trees. Let our enemies move away from us and attain bad speed. (2)
O Kamini! Your heart is angry about me. In addition to your mouth drying up, you are very angry with me. Come near to me as a dry mouth. (2)
Indra, the lord of the abhilashapurak maruts, the rain-maker and the vrithrahanta Indra, performs raman to drink the som squeezed with praises by which host. 
O aschinikumaro! Whether you live in the mortallokas with praiseworthy yagyashalas and dwell in the radiant part of the doloka or in the sky. You come to us from these places. 
This sweet water completely satisfies the son, grandson etc., they should satisfy both son and grandson by exploiting swadha and nectar for divine ancestors. (39)
O Vrisakapi! You come to us again. Indrani and I act loving for you. The way this sun comes, you come into the house. Indra is the best. 
Indra adds ashchas named Hari to his chariot, which receives cows. Our hymns are received by Indra while being served by all. Indra has invaded the earth and the sky with his glory. Indra has killed his enemies i.e. vritra etc. demons in such a way that they are not remaining. (3)
O God of agni! Bring the wives who wish for the gods to this yagna. You bring the skin here to Sompan. 
That state of severance from union with misery is known as Yog. This Yog should be resolutely practiced with determination free from pessimism.
I admire the agni that follows food, rich, with the best of bright and the best light. They should perform yajna for us in Douloka thinking of the happiness of friend and Varuna and for the happiness of the water god. 
O Indra! You are being prayed to make these cows stronger to be athletic.  The power of the bulls that make cows pregnant is being prayed for your strength. 
O glorious agni! Mother earth, nourishing you like a son and wanting contact with you, holds you. Oh, this desireful agni! You come to the yagna by the famous route of space. Just as the left animal wants to go to the animal shed, so you want to go to the gods with a havi. 
O Indra! May all gods and all bhuvans 
O burn! I inspire you to go towards the ocean. The ocean is your place of origin. You get into that. With speed all around, you are going to end violence. No one should destroy us. (23)
O agni! Come here. We speak good praises for you, listen to them and other similar things. You grow by this somras. 
I praise the agni worthy of the rik mantras. I praise the agni worthy of yajna. Let the agni worship the gods through the havans in our yajna. The scholars do angelic work between the agni earth and the sky. They kill all the enemies. 
Just as those desirous of enemies send chariots, similarly the Ritvijas have given the som of food for the devas. 
O krantkarma and dripping mon! Your rasa friends, Aryama, Varuna and Marudgana drink. 
The duties for human beings are described in the Vedas, and the Vedas are manifested by God himself. Therefore, the all-pervading Lord is eternally present in acts of sacrifice.
O Sage Puruhanma! You embellish Indra for your protection. The nature of your vidhata Indra is of two types, fierce and gentle. Indra holds a thunderbolt visible in his hand and looks like the sun in the sky. 
O Indra! You come in front of everyone in the yajna and drink someras and appear in both the sky and the earth. You are the swami of heaven. Whoever squeezes somerus for you, you increase that. (2)
O man who acts for us! I tie both your hands backwards while engaged in the work of the burnt deed, so that they may not be able to do the burn. I also close your face capable of chanting the mantra. By tying your hands and mouth, I will destroy your havi because of the wrath of the agni god. (4)
Just as the elephant searching for the enemy elephants holds madjal, so Indra holds the item to go to many yagnas. O Indra! No one can subdue you. Come to the boom squeezed somras. O great Indra! You move around all over the place by your own force. 
Who had heard the maruts sitting on the chariot? Who knows how they move? The brothers and rain-fed deserts descend to which charity with food? 
There are three Shinshipa trees at this place. (7)
O Ashchini Kumaro! You come to this yagyashala through your chariot made of gold. You give gems and wealth to this servant man while drinking the sweet Someras. (4)
Iron-laden plough gives happiness to the cultivable field. Due to the origin of grains like wheat, barley, etc., this solution is the creator of somayag. The part of the plough moves by staying within the ground. This solution should cause prosperity of animals like cows etc. (3)
Squeezed with the help of stones, beneficial for food and creating pure Soma Jagat, they go to the Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair and the edge of intoxicating Soma mixed with water falls on the Dashapavitra every day. 
The leaders of thousands of wealth are holy, inspiring the enlightened voice of the Som stotras in the morning and inspired by the wind, and go to Indra's beloved Dronakalash, inspired by the wind. 
These rice is pure by mantra and washed by water and part of nectar. Enter the water filled in this rice batloi eligible for yajna. Hey rice! Batloi accept you. The host should cook this Brahmaudan and attain the world of those who do virtue, that is, heaven. (18)
We set you up from the obscure verses. We set you up from the hidden verses. We set you up from the brief verses. We dissect you from the installation. We set you up from Brihand. We establish you from the rathantar verses. We set you up from entity verses. We set you up from vivid verses. We set you up from fallen verses. We set you up from the delica verses. We set you up from stup verses. We set you up from the verses. We set you up from verses. We set you up from the bariva verses. We set you up from the verses. We set you up from adult verses. We establish you from unintelligible verses. We set you up from huge verses. We set you up from verse verses. We set you up from the farcent verses. We set you up from the drowsy verses. We set you up from the digit verses. (5)
O glorious agni! You perform the yajna of the gods living in Dulok. What can people with raw intelligence and without knowledge do without you? O agni of glory born! Just as you have performed the yagnas of the gods from time to time, so do your own yajna. 
Hey Mon! You drop your very intoxicating and deceptive juice on dashapavitra to give us money. 
We have all renounced the behavior of the people and become voted and are located above the air. O men! You can only see our body. 
The vanis worship Indra through Havi and meet the great fast of the host Indra. O host! After these nights you will be established over your kingdom. (3)
We have seen the hidden and terrible places of Indra. We have gone to that place of Indra, who founded ourselves in search. We have asked other scholars about Indra. Those leaders and wise men said that we have attained Indra. 
Which praiseworthy God should we praise well in the yajna? Who is protecting us? Who gives us happiness? Who comes to us to protect us? 
Arjun inquired: Between those who are steadfastly devoted to your personal form and those who worship the formless Brahman, who do you consider to be more perfect in Yog?
Ashwinikumar should protect this agriculture with the same gem that Jupiter God tied to get this gem as fast as air. It gave importance to the Ashwini Kumars again and again and every day. O host! With the help of this gem, destroy your enemies. (12)
The way human beings make opponents friends by praise. In the same way, we will also make Indra sakha. The power of the vandhari Indra will be ours. Just as those who wish to become friends worship the worthy ruler of the city, the lord, so we worship Sri and Adhwaryu Indra who wants to attain success. 
O Indra, the best of the enemies! The people who uproot kush call you to get food. 
O Krant Karma Wale Mon! It is by your glory that these people are located and the rivers obey you. 
Varuna knows the twelve months that arise from time to time by holding the said glory and also knows the thirteenth month. 
O old pulp! This is your food. (15)
O Son of Sage Shringavrush, Indra! The yajna named Kundapatya is your founder. The sages have put their mind into that yagna. 
In the midst of the enemies, I kidnap the glory of the enemies whom I see coming to war, just as the sun takes away the glory of the men who sleep at the time of rise. (2)
All these demons etc. live in his command. (6)
The wives of devas are the ribs of the cow and the sub-members are its wombs. (6)
 O Indra! Your appearance is beautiful. Just as cowherds call on cows at the time of cow milking, similarly we call upon you to protect ourselves. 
I elaborate on the basic basis of vyan vayu and personally pervading prana vayu in everyone's bodies through karma. We perform yajna karma by directing the lettering Vedas in the order of para, pashyanti and vaikhari vaanis through those vyan and prana vayu. (1)
O Indra! You are the best of gods and the enemy losers in battles. We call you. Give us the sons of praise, the all-knowing and the enemy, and when there is war, make our chariots ahead of other chariots. 
We will praise the fast-paced Dadhrira Dev in a hurry. We will throw grass from the earth and the sky before them. May the ushas that destroy the darkness protect us and overcome us with all happiness. 
Those who know this kind of glory of Indra are distinguished in their kingdom. The Ritwik groups get the money that Indra has for the host who gives the havi. (14)
May this sacrifice be well received for the best sages. (12)
You are indra dev's vajra and annamaya. The host also gets it from you. We inspire the earth to grow food with our (mantra) speech. Inspires the earth like Aditi, the mother of gods. The whole world (folk) is under the control of Savrata Dev. Savita make us religious. Please make us dynamic. (5)
O brave and diverse Indra! May your famous truth protect me. O thunderbolt Indra! Just as a sailor crosses us by the water, so do you cross us through great sin. O King Indra! When will you give us money of various forms and worth wanting? 
Varuna, who covers all directions, destroys the shanrunagars spread all around. All the deities perform the ritual of yajnakarmo in front of varuna's chariot. Varuna kills all the enemies. 
The agni spreads bright rays like the praiseworthy sun, makes words with its brightness, increasing the light to suit everyone, and illuminates them at night and puts people in their respective work like the day. The bright and deathless agni sends its rays towards the gods during the day. 
The rivers filled with water are flowing roaring like they are proclaiming the importance of Indra. Ask them what they say? Indra had pierced the cloud that stopped the water. Are those rivers describing the same? 
O agni! Like sitting on the lap of the mother, you sit on this seat. You are omniscient and distwan. Don't heat this with your heat. Always shine with your inner light. (15)
O Indra! By your grace, let us not be as childless as weak, sorrowful and branchless forests. O thunderbolt Indra! We praise you while we are at home. 
If I were the master of the godless and the mortals, those who gave me wealth, that is, your father, would have survived. 
Vishwadevas are non-perishable, with wide intellect and are free from enmity. They come to this yagna. 
Or the one who sees the master of the guests and the guests sees the God Yajna. (3)
The sons of the power of agni and the one who will soon go, may they be pleased with us, and give us happiness and shower our desires. 
O agni! You are a ushik, a poet, an enemy destroyer. You are a sustenance and a food provider. You are pure and pure. You are the emperor, you are krishnanu. You are surrounded by hosts from all sides. You are the nature of the nava and circumambulation. You are the cook of havi, the abode of truth and the publisher yourself. (32)
O man suffering from tuberculosis! I accept for you all the herbs that are spread out for your health, with many twigs, one twig, lumps, leaves, without branches and veins that are going to give you life, all those highly effective and inhabited by all the gods. (4)
Seeing his cows, the Angiragotriya sage was happy to milk them for the first born son. His happy words filled the earth and sky. He created a feeling like a son in the world and appointed brave men to guard the cows. 
Those who have drunk som from the hota of yag have been pleased with the grandson and those who have eaten the food given in the yajna of Neshta, they should drink the fourth sompatra of the death-preventer of Dravinda Havyadata Ritwijs. 
O agni! You eliminate the monsters by your unique sharpness. Be radiant in all your places. 
Swami Indra had suppressed the slaves who made a hue and cry and killed the three-headed and six-eyed Vishwaroop. Trit had destroyed Varaha with iron-like fingers more than the power of Indra. 
Those who transport the water of the desert, the ocean to space through clouds, after this, they release the same water from space to the earth, those who roam dead by becoming the masters of the same waters, they should free us from sin. (4)
The one who consumes the roots, upper part and middle part of the trees whose roots, upper part and middle part are sweet, whose leaves and flowers are full of honey, which are well full of honey, consumes nectar. He gets ghee and food from cows while staying healthy. (12)
O agni! You wear Brahmins. You make space firm. You wear Brahmins, Kshatriyas and superior varnas. We hold you to kill enemies. You give consciousness to everyone. Please make us upward, stable and as bright as the tenacity of Bhrigu and Angiras Rishi. (18)
This hymn! Play with power after the prishatak i.e. tumbi, gourd, peepal, dhak, banyan, beautiful leaves, jackfruit, electricity and cow's hoof. (3)
O Indra and Varuna! Women and men among men and all the gods themselves, when they increase you with praises, then be the masters of these hymns. This is the earth! You too become their master. 
Somas with bright, intelligent and clear currents come from Dashapavittra to Dronakalash. Som is going to beautify the wisher, who lives in all the three sawans, who speaks eloquently, has a thousand eyes, walks in characters and kalash, and speaks in many ushas. 
The great brightness produced in the agni house, i.e., the yajnashala, is absorbed into the individual houses and the whole grain of the hosts. Usha Mata has given part of the yajna sent by Savita to her son Agni. That part is good and agni-enhancing. 
O bride! Som gave you to Gandharva. Gandharva gave you agni and agni has given you for me. He also endowed me with wealth and sons. (4)
Shobhakarini, Dyava The ignorant people who are present in the intermediate state of consciousness and unconscious in the middle of the earth, they rain seven types of divine water. In such a way, save us from sinful deeds. (1)
O Indra, who is called by many, who drinks vajradhari and somras! Stay with us to intoxicate you on the Somras go to Nikud. You give a sum of money to the parrot that squeezes the somras. 
When happiness is received through the prepared Soma Rasa, they increase the wealth and strength of indra host. These people who praise them sing the glory of Indra as before. (2)
Usha's radiant brightness is first seen in the east direction, then spreads in all directions and drives away the black darkness. Just as Adhwaryu reveals the yupa in the yagnas through aazya, so the usha show their form in the sky and serve the bright sun by becoming the daughter of the heaven. 
May this sacrifice be well received for the Mahaganas. (17)
The remaining part of the horse that flies eat, the part that is planted in the hands and fingers of the host, should also be dedicated to the gods. (32)
O aschinikumaro! Go to the best of the one who is your host, the vasishtha, which is your host with praises, the hakyayuktas and the sages. These praises praise you for coming here. 
The poison in agni, herbs, water and serpents and through which terrible deeds have been done, we satisfy all those snakes with lust. (23)
A man gambling more wins his opponent gambler, because the gambler who steals the other's money decides his points before throwing the dice. The gambler who desires the gods, who puts the money received in the victory in god-related works, Indra attaches him with wealth and injustice. (6)
The infinite seer sage who protects the sun, O man! You are going to take yama and get the fruits of the deeds of those ascetic sages. (18)
Hey Indra and Varun! I call you to get strange riches. You give us a good victory. 
Gandharva prajapati, Vishwakarma and mana swaroop. Please protect Gandharva Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Riku and Sama have an apsara named Ashti. Please protect us. This sacrifice is an offering for them. Swaha for them. (43)
Indra, who wears a thunderbolt and is all-encompassing, plows both his obedient horses into the chariot very quickly and gets along with everyone. 
Amongst these, sattva guṇa, the mode of goodness, being purer than the others, is illuminating and full of well-being. O sinless one, it binds the soul by creating attachment for a sense of happiness and knowledge.
Twenty-one cows give milk in the yagna performed by the ancient people for the sun while being purified. When Som grew up through the yagnas, he made four shobhan waters for his purification. 
O Indra called by many! Drive out the enemy from us with the furious thunderbolt that you have. O Indra! Give us money with barley and cows. You make the praise of your hymns a producer of food and gems. 
Dhak leaf is the lid of the charus. With this palash, we get food, strength, strength and strength to destroy the enemy. Make this palash letter a hundred years old. (53)
Whoever considers the pregnant vasha as his own or digests it, Jupiter wishes to take his son, grandson etc. (39)
Let us all find wisdom and food by getting the water-holding hymn of the visible and wise Sarsavandev. 
O fire! Come with all these gods to drink somras, receive our service and praise and complete our yajna. 
Hey Varun! Separate our parental hatred from us. Free us from the crime we have committed from our bodies. O beautified Varun! The condition of my vasishtha is like feeding grass to the animal that has been stolen or a calf tied to a rope in the form of atonement. You deliver me from sin. 
O Maruto! You come here from space, heaven or ihlok. Don't stay in a remote place. 
O you who are blessed, Maruto! Kushs have been uprooted for you. What place are you happy at this time? Who's the psalm serving you? 
O Rudra Dev! You are a mountain dweller. We speak welfare promises towards you. Please keep this whole world away from tuberculosis (disease). Let us be well-hearted by your grace. (4)
The gem that Jupiter dev had tied to get the same velocity as the air, the gods who wore the same gem conquered all the worlds through war. May that gem give victory to this host. O host! With this help you destroy your enemies. (16)
 O Indra! You destroyed the batch of demons who stole cows with your own force. After the destruction of the demons, all the gods gathered. Then all those gods then organized with you. 
The authority of the yajna part and the shobhon-speeded Usha and sat in the night yajnashala. They are beautiful and sharp to be possessed of the same glory as the divine woman. 
O enemy, the violent Indra! I, who knows your power, cannot forsake your praises. I will always speak your exceptionally successful name. 
People see Dadhidra Dev in the struggle and shout in the same way as a man shouts when he sees a thief stealing clothes. Just as birds run away when they see the hungry hawk descending downwards, so people run away when they see the dadhidra that runs with the idea of destroying the food and animal group. 
O Indra! You protect us daily with great wealth. You protect us with all your defense tools. 
O Indra Dev! You are worthy of utmost worship, worthy of being called by the Creators and hosts of all. With the help of those ashes, the deity or the asura is not able to stop your tears, you should come to our sacrifice. (11)
O Rudra Dev! You have a blue neck and a white throat. You reside in paradise. You keep your bows away from us thousands of plans. (56)
O Indra and Agni! Let us consume the money we ask of you with cows, gold and horses. 
May Indra, who killed Vritrasura, inspire that shanru to go to a very distant country. He did not come back for many years. (2)
O agni! The way you worshipped the gods by havan in the yajna of the meritorious Manu, O Yajna Samudrakarta Sadhu Agni, as a revolutionary, along with the meritorious ritvijas! Similarly, you should worship the gods in this yajna by the blissful Khuku named Juhu. 
 O agni! You come to the yajna with all the agnis. You listen to our words in this yajna. Please provide us food. 
O agni! This sacrifice and these praises are yours. Come near you serving. O agni! We humans call you for happiness. 
Savita, who has sun rays and green hair, always shines light towards the east. On savita's birth, Pusha moves on. The wise Savita sees and protects the whole world very well. 
O Dyotman, Jataveda, Anna Swami and the agni without death! The gods have given you many names. O world-making and desired fruit-bearing agni! Many of the maya that the gods possessed in you of the Mayavians are in you. 
Vishnu and Varuna, through the power of Vishnu and Varuna, who have been strengthened in the earth and other places, who have attained very powerful opulence through their heroic deeds, may Vishnu and Varuna receive the call given before all the gods. (1)
 O Desertion! Truth is our force. We have become sweaty while performing yagna. Please fulfill the wishes of such worshippers. 
O Jupiter, the benefactor of all the gods! Eat the havya of these people and give the host the best money. 
 O Mon! You give us energy. You are unlovable and holy. You run through the streams and enter the urn. May the gods rejoice to hear your voice. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You are the master of Brahmagyan and the master of the body. You are kind to Samartho. Only those who perform yajna are able to reach you. He who has not heated his body cannot get anything 
O Ashwinikumaro! I'll call you. You listen to my call. Just as the Father teaches the Son, so teach me. I am without brotherhood, without knowledge, without knowledge, without jati and without wisdom, and you protect me before you are evil. 
The best mistress and dhanshalini Usha has been born and she has created food for the welfare of all. Usha Devi, the daughter of heaven and the most dynamic, holds wealth for the one who does good deeds. 
 Savita has embraced the sophisticated Somers. They are brilliant and beneficial to human beings. Hosts should desire horses and heaven to win from them. 
O water! Send the agni to the ancestors. My ancestors consume this yajna. The ancestors who consume the food presented by us, they should continue to give us heroism and wealth. (40)
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as parents protect the son, so you protected Indra with your praiseworthy deeds and powers by drinking somras. O Indra! Saraswati was near you. 
Just as Ashwinikumar had picked up a king named Bhujyu from a place of powerful guards, so did the soman bird Som, a straight-moving shien bird from the great paradise protected by Indra. At that time, a wing of the bird injured by the arrows of Krishnanu had fallen in the war. 
O Indra concerning our praises! May these praises of Ours come to you from all sides. Follow you of the eternal age and get these praises. May these praises please us by satisfying you. 
May you two husband and wife always be together. You should never be different from each other. Both of you should eat many types of food throughout your life, play with your son etc. and always be happy while being free from welfare. (22)
O self- You are the death that ends life. (2)
O unkempt and detailed Mon! You are taken to dashapavitra by the ritvaijs. Oh extremely intoxicating Mon! You sit in characters called Chamu for Indra. 
O Indra who follows the hosts! This Soma, which is squeezed and gives pleasure like the rays of the moon, goes into your stomach. (4)
O Indra! Destroy those who come before us in war and defeat us. Erase the name of the person wishing to condemn us. Give us the group of funds. 
Indra alone holds the vajra held in his hand and destroys the enemies with it. 
The gods created the agni in heaven only by the praises that perfected the dyava-prithvivi by their power. The gods divided that soothing agni into three parts. The same agni cooks all the herbs. 
The agnis of the origin of wealth, those holding wealth, those of unique and diverse births know the desires of our mind and consume the night by staying present near space. O agni! Go to the hidden place in the cloud. 
But those who worship the formless aspect of the Absolute Truth—the imperishable, the indefinable, the unmanifest, the all-pervading, the unthinkable, the unchanging, the eternal, and the immoveable—by restraining their senses and being even-minded everywhere, such persons, engaged in the welfare of all beings, also attain me.
O Mon! You are the son of Jupiter. We have assumed you in upyam. We accept Mon with his wife. We increase them. Space is fatherly. We are protected by them from all sides. Let us see the sun from both sides. Let us see the supreme cavity of the gods. (9)
This hymn! Praise Indra, the best of the leaders. Their importance leads to the sharp defeat of others. His glory destroys the whole earth. They possess human subjects. Their importance is bigger than the ocean and they fulfill the divine earth with their speed. 
O agni! You are protector, truer, more intelligent and vast in all respects. O beautiful agni! Meritorious hymns serve you. 
 This friend! You are going to do holy work. You are admired by many people. You grow with the food of Havi. You are adorned with your power. 
I have made all the acts done by this herb on cows and men in the area powerless. (4)
 O agni! You have subhag 
O agni! The rituals who desire you in this world choose you as the invoker of the gods in the yagnas. The people who are willing to do godlyness and the human beings who are willing to do godlyness wear sacrificial fluid for you. 
O agni! You are the king and leader of yajna in Bhuvanlok. You plough your horses for the welfare of all. You adorn Aditya sitting in a murdhanaya place in heaven. You are a carrier and a fiery tongue. (23)
Aditya Dev separates Som from water and drinks it. They get the truth from the right. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk and sweet foods. (74)
We are the nurturer of many devotees and the leader of the yagna, you praise the gods by giving them a vow to get wealth. We praise the dhishanas, flora and herbs living with vaastupati, tvastha, dhandatri and other gods. 
Friends, Varun and Aryama take us by the best path whenever they want. Go to Aryama Shobhan Daata and tell us. May we be protected by the gods and pleased with their food and children. 
Hey Varun! Vasishtha, who is your son, who has committed crimes by becoming your beloved in the past, may be your friend at this time. O Yagyaswamy Varuna! Let us not suffer from sins, O meritorious Varuna! You give home to Stota. 
We ask for money from those who listen to hymns, those who destroy poverty and the lord of all. 
There are a hundred milk cutters and a hundred protectors with milk containers on the back of this vasa cow. The gods who breathe because of this cow, that is, are alive, only they know this cow. (5)
O Earth! You keep the dead person high. Don't let it hinder. You become the one with the abyssmal treatment and shobhan condition for it. Just as the mother covers the son with her robe, so the earth should cover the bones of the deceased. 
By protecting Indra and Varuna we get money and use it. We have enough money. 
The agni that is the agni is the sustainer of our animals. May the udumbar gem, which gives the desired fruit, increase my body and nourish the animals in all ways. (2)
 O hosts! You sing stories for Indra, who destroyed the tree. The stories you will sing for brahmins, they listen to them with joy. 
The jars of the white-colored Agni Usha illuminate all the substances like the Sun and the illuminators fill the earth and sky with their brightness like the Sun. O agni! You become enlightened and permeate the whole world through your karma. You are the angels of the gods like the Son, but you are their guardian like the Father. 
O host! You should recite elaborate mantras for the deity and the marudgan. Indra Dev is vritrasurnashi. They destroy Vritrasura with a hundred sharp arrows. They are hundreds of yagna performers. (96)
Sanjay said: O King, having spoken thus, the Supreme Lord of Yog, Shree Krishna, displayed his divine and opulent form to Arjun.
Therefore, when performing acts of sacrifice, offering charity, or undertaking penance, expounders of the Vedas always begin by uttering “Om” according to the prescriptions of Vedic injunctions.
 O agni! You are a torchbearer in yagyas. You know all paths far or near. You are omniscient. 
This evil man is considering me without heroism. I am Shur's wife. My husband is a friend of Marudgan. Indra is superior to everyone. (9)
You were pleased with the sompan and made a commendable donation for the yajna of the cows stolen by the pangs. In the three realms, when the supreme Indra was engaged in the war, he would open the door of the anti-human asuras for the cows to come out. 
O Lord of food and wealth, Ashwinikumaro! Come to us by the path of yajna. O money-giver Ashwinikumaro! It was through this path that you had satisfied Triksha, the son of Trishadsyu, by giving him great wealth. 
When we give food to agni and they accept our greetings, they adopt the rays that receive water by the power of bright food. 
O Indra! You are sompanak and truthful. We are not a famous person. O infinite rich Indra! Make us the best rich by beautiful and countless cows and horses. 
Prajapati transmits in the womb without being visible and is born in many forms. Half of that has created the whole world. The rest of his is faith, that is his identity. (13)
When the boneless nature possessed the bone-like world, who could see the first one to be born? Life and blood were born from the earth, but where did the soul come from? Who will ask this question to someone knowledgeable? 
O Lord of all mystic powers, if you think I am strong enough to behold it, then kindly reveal that imperishable cosmic form to me.
 O Indra! You are strong, the master of power and like Brahma. Please make us wise. 
 O agni! You are immortal, omniscient and omniscient. You get many types of money from Usha. Please give that money to the host and bring specially awakened gods to the yagna. 
By targeting Rudra, the father of the maruts, we are speaking sweet and incremental words of praise even with delicious substances. O mortal Rudra! Give us the food of men and protect me and my son as your son. 
O agni! The lord gods of the yajna established havi in you, pleading for your grace. After this, for the sake of this ritual, Usha and Ratri were made different, i.e., Nisha was made black and Usha was made Arun. 
O Yaayu and indra! You both know that Somras is ready. You both live in foody matter. You both come close to the yagna soon. 
O enemy-sounding Indra! You are always warring and by your own strength destroy one city of enemies after another. O Indra! You killed the present, famous, elusive asura named Namuchi in a distant land with the help of the thunderbolt. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra! No one in the world is better and more praiseworthy than you. O Indra! There is no one as famous as you. 
The glorious Aditya interviewed Brahman with signs of truth, knowledge, etc. in the hearts of all beings, in which the whole world becomes one. Heaven and Aditya expressed this world. People who are born and know their Creator praise Him. (1)
O non-violent and extremely intoxicating Mon! You are pure. You yourself become the eater of Indra by being the best. Many stotas praise the king of this world, Soma, and go near him. 
O workman, the worshiper of the people, the sinner, the sacrificial, the giver of praise, and the worshiper, Ashvinikumaro! Give us the desired fruits, for the son of the highness prays for wealth by long-term praise, and you give protection by listening to the praises. 
O Indra praised by many! You increase us by your means of defense praised by the sages and give us rich food. 
O agni! Give the giving host enough money with children and let us make the children prosper. 
O Indra! You have been called by many hosts. The water that you provide us, that water immediately appears and starts flowing. You rip apart the clouds praised by the Angiras and give us infinite food. (8)
You are the holy Basu, the one of hundreds, thousands of streams and the one who purifies. O men! Savita Dev is a purifying child. Please make you holy with their hundreds of streams. Which other kamdhenu do you want to milk after this? That is, after they are so pleased, what other wish remains to be fulfilled. (3)
 O Indra! You are pure. We praise you with pure speech. You make us pure too. You accept this pure somersa presented by me. You hold pure wealth for us. 
 The holy, hostile, luminous and filtered Someras flows in Dronakalash. 
Let the hearts of our enemies go out of their bodies. Their life and air should also come out of their body. Our enemies die due to dry mouth. Our friends' faces should not be dry. (21)
O father! You belong to the tribe of Atri and Angira. You are about to climb to heaven because of the session yag for nine months. You are a virtuous soul who gives dakshina after completing the ten-month yag. For this reason, sit on this wide kush and satisfy our desire. (20)
O agni! It is the abode of all of you. O Brahma! O Jupiter! You are the abode of all. All the Devgans are requested to please provide auspicious results (results) to this yajna of the host being performed with a good heart. (76)
Made smooth with the remaining ghee from performing havan, sweet, with sweetness, with more milk, one who strengthens the earth from his roots, does not degenerate from his place, makes others fall, drives away enemies and makes him powerless, the door should be located by the power given by Indra in other more powerful medicines i.e. herbs. (2)
There is nectar in the waters. Medicines reside in waters. With the effect of these waters, our horses become strong, our cows become powerful. (4)
O fainting herb! I remove the poison that brings your fainting from the body in such a way that the arrow left from the bow falls away. O poison! You permeate the body parts like a messenger who goes secretly. I remove you from the body with my mantra power. (4)
O wife! I have received you for love among myself through sweet honey spread all over and like reed. (5)
Agni Dev has given us a wife along with age and speed. Her husband should be long-lived and attain the age of 100 years. (2)
O Vajradhari Indra! Your thunderbolt is very famous. You had destroyed ninety-nine cities of demons with this thunderbolt and took possession of their hundredth city, you also killed the asuras named Vritra and Namuchi with your thunderbolt. (5)
Hey Aditya! Come from paradise three times a day and give money to us. O aditya, worthy of service by all and protector of all! Give us three types of wealth in the form of animals, kanaks and gems. O Vagdevi! Inspire us to gain wealth. 
We praise The Dalai God quickly. May all the ushas inspire us to perform yajnakarma. We will praise Jal, Agni, Usha, Sun, Jupiter and Angiraputra Jishnu. 
 O Indra! You are a knight and a master of horses. You come. Your son 
O horse! Those who are your victims, those who are the victims of the back and lower part, they correct the zrutis and other errors related to the havi in the yajna with the offerings of ghee of Brahmin khuva. (40)
Those who were Sadhya and Vasu, they reached the place of heaven by drinking the milk of Vasha Cow and always drink the milk of Vasha Cow. (31)
O agni generated by power! Protect us from the violent and penetrate the enemies. 
 O Indra! We have prepared somers by filtering for you. It has been distinguished on the seat of Kush lying on the altar of yajna. You get close to him soon. Please drink that someras. 
O Indra! This donkey-like adversery is blaming you with bad words. Kill it. O infinite wealthy Indra! Make us rich with beautiful and countless cows and horses. 
May all the gods, including Indra, Marut, Vishnu and Agne join me in the war. Let the people as wide as space be mine and let the air go according to my desire and sanctify me. 
O agni! You are revered among the fasting deities, human beings and aradhaniya (worshipable) in yajna. O Mon! You give us plenty of money. You give us enough money to do good to you as well as us. Savita Dev is a wealth giver. He has also been pleased to give us a lot of money. (16)
O Indra admirable by the praises! You first drink the squeezed somras like a somras drinker. It is designed only to produce pure, lush, intoxicating and beautiful somras intoxication. 
Annad, who knows this, eats food through Virat. (10)
I call the one who takes the form of life of all beings, the protector of the world and the waters that always flow close to me. (1)
O Indra, who has been called by many and is called by the thunderbolt! My mind trembles like a wheel on earth. O ever-growing and wealthy Indra! The sage named Puravasu praises you abundantly knowing you to be sitting on the chariot. 
O agni! Perimeter is built around you to protect yourself from animals. That perimeter suits you. That perimeter is secret. May the agni fill this circumference. The beloved pathehas been dedicated to agni. Please accept them. (17)
Protect us from being eaten by the teeth of the warrior demon with unlimited power, from the scattering of the body through the fragments, from diseases etc., from the thought of proper improper work and yawning etc. (2)
O agni! You are omniscient. Destroy all our enemies that have been born. You speak to us with a good heart. Let us be well-hearted by your grace. Let us destroy enemies and become capable. (2)
Prajapati Brahma is entered in the body of this Taurus. They have made the middle part of its body loadable. The load is placed in the central part of this. Both the front and the previous parts of this are the same. (8)
May the sun free us from the fear of death. May the God named Sutrama, the doer of life and the one with grace, also free us from the fear of death. There should be many brave men like our sons, grandsons etc. in this world. Apart from this, I should have a nutrient with many cows and many horses. (61)
In this forest, the cows are seen grazing somewhere and somewhere they are seen from the house. In the evening, many cars seem to be coming out of the forest. 
O woman! I quickly apply nilanjan, honeywood, wood of the madhuk tree, vegetation called kuth and ubtan made by grinding khus on mount Trikkud with the hands of the fortunate God. (3)
The agni that the ancient sages and gods ignited by the ancient sages and devas that called the gods, with happy tongues, with adornment lights and with aura, are true. 
O agni! Please completely destroy the wicked with your molars. Please destroy the bandits completely with your teeth. Please destroy the thieves completely with your beard. You dig a pit and bury the enemies. Please do good deeds. (78)
The winged armament i.e. pigeon should not kill us. He should go to the forest with agni. O God! May that pigeon give happiness to our cows and men. That pigeon should not do us violence. (3)
Indra, who is from the entire army, is on his back. The lord of all, Indra, frees the cow of whomever he wants and sends it to him. O the best-wise Indra! Don't ask us for its value like a trader by giving us enough money. 
O you godless! Give us a hassle-free house. O gods who give the abode! Do not come from near or far away and destroy our house. 
O ladies! Let the first of you go to the second and the second to the third. So let all the drugs come together to protect My word. 
O Indra! For the sake of getting food, the revolutionary is praising you. You killed the dasa Asura and made the earth his refuge. Indra had killed Kuyavach for the welfare of the Duryoni king by doing a bizarre act of charity of three lands. 
Oh, God! You give happiness to both our binomial and quadruped beings. Let all beings eat and drink and be powerful. You give happiness and sinlessness to beings. 
The Dadhidra Devas, willing to go to the armies of the Asuras, walk along the lines of the chariots, finding the best place in them. They are as ornate as a man-friendly horse, blowing dust and chewing the reins again and again. 
May Savita Dev remove our diseases and bring down the powerful sin. Sin should be destroyed at the place where somerus is squeezed. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
Varun and Manu bring their money and give it to us. Our enemies should be defeated by holding fear in their hearts and run away in fear. (7)
Just as the thief runs away at the end of the night, in the same way, seeing the sun, all the stars run away along with the night. (17)
O all-chooser, the abode-giver and the most powerful Indra! Come to our yajna with a sad and hostile item in wars. We'll go to the cowshed. 
O Jativeda Agni! You go before the gods, perform the yajna of the gods by the havi and make them the adornment. 
We call indra, who is enthusiastic in the rich struggle, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the hearer of praises, the fiercest of the enemies, the demon destroyer in the war and the winner of the wealth of enemies. 
The three idols of The Shuchi, the Mediator of the Godless and the Yajnasamedika Agni, sat on the Kushas, suitable for the Bharati, Vak and Saraswati Yajna. 
Hey Ritvijo! I praise the famous, most celebrated, most shanruhanta and bali indra for bringing great wealth to you people. 
O agni! We offer sacrifices to your flame which is bright and like the moon, your flame which is sacred and related to yajna. (104)
O act! The sorcerer who has received you can defile the way and return to the extinguished. We bathe you with his blood. (9)
Amongst the snakes I am Anant; amongst aquatics I am Varun. Amongst the departed ancestors I am Aryama; amongst dispensers of law I am Yamraj, the lord of death.
O workman Indra and Agni! Even if you are present in the subsequent, intermediate or lower surface of the sky, come from these places and drink the squeezed somers. 
O soul! You are a woman, you are a man. You are Kumar and you are Kumari. When you grow old, you walk with the help of a stick and when you are born, you become facing all sides. (27)
 O agni! Please encourage other gods to donate money to us. Please increase our self-knowledge and sacrifice along with other agnis. 
Hear again my supreme instruction, the most confidential of all knowledge. I am revealing this for your benefit because you are very dear to me.
Agni is the giver of wealth to annadata, poet and havidata. You wear gems to give to the host. (25)
Duryodhan said: Respected teacher! Behold the mighty army of the sons of Pandu, so expertly arrayed for battle by your own gifted disciple, the son of Drupad.
O Vajradhari Indra! The power with which you make human beings great by giving them your auspicious property like enemies, give us that glorious property too. (10)
O agni! By your grace, we will take all our enemies like a stream of water. 
From where did the divine mind, who knew his father Food through the next feet and the one who knew the other through the back feet, appear? Prajapati said. (18)
Indra's hair, beard and moustache are all green. Indra attains growth by drinking Someras when he is cultured. Indra comes to drink Somras with his fast-moving horses to drink. Havi is their wealth. May Indra destroy all our sins by adding horses to his chariot. (3)
The gods first thought of the sukta word from the mind. After this, the havya was produced. He became the sacrificial and body protector of the agni gods. Those agnis know the jhullok, earth and space. 
O agni! You are ours. Please protect us and make us rich. Please make our body strong. You are a revered and protector. Please protect our children. Please protect our cows and us continuously. (13)
One who performs havan by the order of such a learned fast holder goes on the path of Pitrayana and Devayan. (4)
Indra drives away great enemies with weapons. He killed the dry asura because of the stotra of Kutsa. Idra had subdued the opponents of the praising Ushna poet. They are going to donate to Ushna and other human beings. 
The asuras are afraid of The Dadhikra Dev in the same way that those who fight are afraid of the thunderbolt while saying words. They seem extremely fierce in an excited state while fighting thousands of people around. No one dares to stop them. 
O agni! You are a behobhna giver. Give us food with animals and great wealth to give. 
They give the god earth, space and dulok to all three of them a red color, a source of victory and a sun-like son who gives them a place of abode. They see the places of the mortal and invincible gods. 
O creatures! Move away from this agni of garbage through mantras and go to the south direction from kravyad agni. Do what is dear to you and your ancestors there. (34)
Indra, who holds the water producing sky, is illuminated. Just as a calf born immediately remains attached with the cow, in the same way Indra is everywhere. Indra is born with the great word and creates vast waters. 
Sama, Yaju, Richayen and Brahma followed him. (8)
Those with the same state and the same purpose are very helpful to each other and the adhwaryu adds their glory to the body of the fire. Just as the sun compels its rays and holds the reins of the charioteer horses, so the fire accepts the crooks we cast. 
O Indra! The earth and the sky hold the mon like the mother who conceives of your desire. O karyati Indra! The adhyavaryugans send the same mon to you and purify it for you to drink. 
Admired by the Psalms and known to all, Agne lifted up the seven rays as radiant as all the sisters from the intoxicating yajna so that he could gladly see all the substances. Anne, born in ancient times, regularized his rays in space in the middle of Dyava-Prithvi. The agni that desired the hosts gave the earth its rainy form. 
Usha is born in the eastern part of the wide sky and gives knowledge of the directions. The earth and the sky are his Father. Usha has become very widely famous with her sharpness by being located in the middle of these two. 
The suns, like the shining lightnings of the great sun, scatter the nectar water in the middle of the deep ocean, grow in their habitat space and resort to agni burning with their brightness. the space cavity is similar. 
O Savita Dev! You increase the sumathi. Please give us a good momentum. We worship Savita Dev wisely. (12)
As a kindled fire reduces wood to ashes, O Arjun, so does the fire of knowledge burn to ashes all reactions from material activities.
The seven divine sages performed the ritual of yajna by knowing the mantras, verses and rules of the yajna together. Just as the charioteer holds the reins of horses, so the patient sages followed the path of the ancient people. 
O Indra! We increase your power. Take away the wealth of those who do not give you and condemn you and give it to us. (6)
O Indra and Varuna! Take the protection money in the dark night to give us the son and grandson as well as the fertile land, to see the sun for a long time and to give us the power of procreation, and be ready to destroy your enemies. 
 These are dear to Som Indra. Som showers wishes. These are going to increase his 
O agni! You bring the gods to this yajna of ours and worship them. As you happen, sit in all three places - earth, space and heaven. You should take part of the havi to all the gods and take it yourself and give satisfaction by drinking sweet somras. (5)
O glorious, intoxicating and very devabhilashi Mon! You fall on our dashapavittra to drink of Indra. 
Let the agnis that call the gods by staying among the human beings accept our praises and carry the contents of the devyagya. 
This body is made of air, nectar etc. The body is perishable. O host! Remember om and your ability and the deeds you have done. (15)
 O agni! You are strong, God and swami of cows. You know everything. Please give us a lot of glory. 
O adhwaryujano! Take the mon to Indra and put the intoxicating mon in the anne through the spoons. Veer Indra is always inclined to drink this mon. You give the jeweler Mon for Indra's sake, because they want it. 
O Indra! You killed the vritra over the earth and the sky, and made clear your dominion, and you poured down water containing deserts and satisfying the living beings. 
Agni is illuminated by enlightening sun-related mantras. From that, snow, day and yajna originated. (48)
This yajna is going to call the gods. Perform this yajna with a good heart for the gods, give all the happiness to the gods and establish the gods. (62)
Oh, my! You are the one who sees, tolerant and powerful all of you, who are self-inflicted by the power to defeat your enemies. You give us Oz in Sangram. 
O you with sweet juices, kalyanswaroopa and uninvited mon! You tap for the clitoris, the air, the push, the friend and Varuna. 
O agni! With the help of the chariot with which you go in all directions and protect the host who gives the havan, your rare chariot will be around me. 
O great Indra! Just as you drank somras as soon as you were born, drink this som to get happiness. Cows, water, stones and somata have been collected for you to drink. 
 O Indra! Just as you clean the horse by washing it in the water of the river, in the same way, this someras has been cleaned by crushing it with stones in the water. The juice of this is squeezed by crushing it with stones. It has been cleaned by filtering the sheep's hair with a sieve. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come with them by the means by which you protect the people who fight for the sake of cow gain in the struggle, are helpful to the host in the field and the gain of wealth, and protect his chariots and horses. 
O wind! Please come to our yagya that touches heaven. We request good-minded hosts to come from you. Som is sacred, bright and extremely beautiful. We offer this somers that came to earth from above for your drinking. (85)
O Mon! You take your part in the east, west, north and south direction and come running in the yagna. Please know the yajna well in this way. (36)
The one who follows the world and our king Indra lives near the earth and the sky. Veera lives in front of Indra in the desert struggle and resides in his house. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
Those whose powerful and unattainable rays from others spread around in the sky like the sun dropping rain water, they become our protectors with the help of indra maruts who defeated enemies by jitshatru and shakti. 
O the deserters! Just as the birds walk quickly through the sky, so when you gather the clouds in the sky near us, the clouds cling to your chariots and start raining water. For this reason, you should rain clean water like honey on the hosts who worship you. 
 O Indra! O agni! This divine quality is a sign of valour for both of you. You are adorned and adorned in heaven with the wealth of virtues. 
O lord of the gentlemen Indra! At the time when you killed the Vrithra Asura, your intoxicating deserts made you happy. You are able to rain. When you crossed the barrier of enemies and ended ten thousand mischiefs of the praise-giving and the havyadata host, at that time, charupurodasadi havya and the famous somers pleased you. 
O earth and sky! Remove the crimes that we commit against the gods, the brothers and the tribes that we commit on a daily basis, remove those sins of ours. You save us from sin. 
The man who does not stop consuming the agni, his agriculture, food items, valuable things, etc. which he has, remain like zero. (36)
O Rudra! You wear a bow to destroy the world. Which is green, gold-made, heats one thousand people at a time and kills a hundred creatures. O Rudra with a crown made of peacock feathers! Hello to that bow of yours. Rudra Dev's arrow goes everywhere without stopping. This is a means of violating the gods. Salutations to this arrow in the direction in which this arrow is. (12)
O lord and leader Indra! The people who speak uqth praise you when you go to Someras Nichud. When will the beloved Indra come here to drink the same words as the beloved Indra bull to drink? 
O night! Cut off the head of a snake whose smoke-like breath is painful. Blindly kill the wolf under the tree. (1)
O Lord Indra! O agni! You are fierce and disruptive. We call upon both of you gods. Please give us happiness in situations like this. (61)
O agni! You are revered in the yajna, the ancient, the one who has been performing havan for a long time, worthy of praise and being in the yajna. Please your body and give us good fortune. 
O air! Give the nectar for our lives from the treasure of nectar that is hidden in your house. 
O mighty agni! Let this sacrifice of ours consist of cows, sheep and horses. The yajna with adhwaryu and host is always unsustainable, full of food, with son and grandson, etc., that is continuous, rich, the cause of many assets and full of preachers. 
Hey Mon! Flow down the stream of rasadhara to which you provide the semen to the clever hymn that you drink. 
He who does not donate havi to the merchant gods becomes a servant of eternal heroes. It is heard. (4)
May we get the fruits of yajna with a good heart. This horse has the ability to fulfill the wishes of the gods too. It also makes the gods happy. Devgan also considers him as his friend. May the Brahmins and sages be pleased to approve of it, (30)
O diseased man! I free you from the tuberculosis disease that has entered your body without my knowledge. I also free you from the king who accepted King Soma for a long life. O Indra and Agni! The vampire who has caught this child, you both rescue this child from him. (1)
O fiery, great and pro-human Indra! When your angry armies fight, the thunderbolt in your hand fell to protect us. Don't let your mind go all over to you be distracted. 
 O agni! You stay close to us. You protect us. Please be a benefactor for us. 
O agni! We increase you by igniting you with samidhas and ghee. Please be exalted and illuminated by the great flames. (3)
Hey Mon! You come to the yagna with food, having enough to consume your abode form, the ungodly and the praise-doering man. 
O vanaspati! Offer havi to the gods. Be endowed with host samman with it. 
O the most adorned, the fierce, the one who rains water, the lord of the earth and the sky, and the friends and Varuna who see all! Come to hear Our praise with the beautiful clouds and pour out water from the sky by the power of the cloud. 
The ancestors have accepted the havi that I have provided for the ancestors in the yajna. He has also accepted that havi. Self-published Brahmins started praising with new verses. O Indra! Now please plough horses called Hari in the chariot to come to this yajna. (51)
In the morning, kushas are laid facing east to cover the altar. This beautiful kush is more spread out. It is for Aditi and other gods to sit. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra and Agni! Listen to my holy and for this time the psalms for this time. I call you both again and again, which are pleasantly called. Give quick food to the host who desires you. 
Today, in this yajna of ours, please come to protect everyone. Please come to protect us from agni and the world. May Indra Dev increase from samidhas. May all gods give us strength. May all gods please give us food and wealth. (52)
O milk! You bring out a word that can take away from the voice of enemies. You echo the words to win the war like a talkative man who investigates. (11)
O you real powered leader Maruto! Fulfill the wishes of the hosts who have taken a sweat bath and wish you while aiming for you and chanting praise mantras. 
This is the hymn! Be able to praise the agni that holds the joyful, the great and the meritorious. All the people attain their commen by giving a greeting to the agni of the wise, the destroyers of the puris, the embodiment of the arani, the praiseworthy, the green hair, the flames and the loving hymns. 
O Indra! You rain water with the power that sustains agriculture. No one can despise Indra named Ishaan. (14)
Those who sing the Samaveda have praised Indra through the samagana, those who recite the Rigveda have praised Indra through the trichas and those who recite the Yajurveda have praised Indra through mantras. 
For Indra, who has possessed the light in the bright substances like the sun, etc., and who made the Somras sweeter by madhu, the sages who have spoken shaktidata hymns, the creators of the vast ukthamamantra, have spoken the shaktidata hymn. 
This shatawar mani! It drives away the demons in space from its horns i.e. the next parts and removes the demons from its root i.e. the lower part. This gem removes tuberculosis i.e. TB disease from its middle part. Sin does not transgress it. (2)
Hey leaders! You rescued Vartika from the mouth of the kidney in the battle of the kidney and vartika. You gave the praiseworthy scholar the power to see. 
 O Indra! You are as powerful as a lion. You are able to maintain. We offer you somersas in yajna. We beseech you with a victory prayer. Don't get angry at us. Who is the person who does not plead with his master? 
The sun's rays are present in the sky that covers everyone. They stop the wolf crossing the huge water. O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
This is the hymn! Read all kinds of huge hymns, beloved and dear to the great Varuna Dev, the ruler of the kings. They are important, with great deeds, intelligent, bright and unworthy, as well as illuminate the earth and the sky. 
O Indra! Thus you make us complete with the best wealth. Give us the people of the good that have the food containing the brave sons and protect us by all the welfare means. 
In the battle, we invoke the agni that conquers the enemies, defeats the enemies and is born from the best place of Arani through mantras. May He destroy all our sufferings. May the agni of radiance burn all our sins. (1)
O Lord of the Food and the Year-old, Ribhu.o! At the end of the day, the host who squeezes the sharply drunk som for your happiness, you are pleased to give him property with sons and grandsons. 
We establish in ourselves the medha that the god named Ribhu knew, the medha that the demons knew and the wisdom that Vasishtha etc. rishis knew about The Vedas. (3)
There is no one among those guests who is not going to perform havan. (4)
The charitable hymns have provided eternally power-enhancing food for Indra with the desire to get water. When the thunderbolt was placed in Indra's hands, he completely destroyed the iron-made city of the enemies. 
O agni! At the time of the yajnas with shobhan havans, give the host the desired fruits and fulfill his desire even at the time of the recitation of the hymn. May the host be dear to the sun and agni and destroy the enemy with the help of the sons who are born and born in the future. 
 O Indra! We want to make you our friend. We want to be friends of you. We are Kanvavanshis. We consider it our duty to praise you. We are praising you. 
O global agni! Be pleased with the maruts of long life, and drink the somras, and drink the somarah, and drink the somras, with the riches of adornment, worthy of the group, sanctifying, sanctifying, pleasing by advancement, and with long-lived maruts. 
O Indra! The money I ask of you, give me that money. Give money first to the host who is willing to serve and possess the right. O ancient Indra! Give money to the parrot after this. 
O Mon, who knows our praise and is praiseworthy of by the ukathamtras! You tap for our yajna and drop your sweet juice on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. O radiant Mon! You kill all the demons that eat humans. We with shobhan children will get great wealth and praise you a lot in the yajnas. 
Indra said, "It is not possible to rule over a woman's mind; a woman's intellect is dynamic." 
O Indra! You survive. O sun! You survive. O God of Indra! You survive. May I also live by your grace. I should live full life i.e. a hundred years. (1)
O Palash tree born of somphorn! You are the best in the vegetation. All trees are your worshippers, that is, lower than you. By Your grace, let our enemy who wants to destroy us become our worshiper. (1)
Like a beautiful house, able to protect the wealth given to the worshipers, like ripe barley, usable by all, praising the gods like the sages who see the mantra, like a famous host and like a horse, Agni give us the grain. 
O earth! Please be friendly to us with the rain from yajna. Please climb the agni. (103)
I praise Indra, the master of ashas called Hari, and who gave his strength to others. I am the son of a sage. Listen to my praise. 
The sand-found agnis should be used for digging and consume this yajna and give us a great food without disease without being hostile to us. 
O Goddess! With this, your womb is going to have feelings related to yajna. Your vagina is heavenly by this. Organs are as sacred as agni. Mantras make you have a holy congregation. This sacrifice is dedicated to you. (29)
The hosts, who are willing to be the masters of cows and have a good attention, protect the fire that the friend's semen produced from the yagnakarma inside the water for the sake of the realization of the cows and to protect their human beings, the fire with which the earth and the sky tremble, the same beloved and sacrificial fire. 
The sun visible to all destroys invisible worms. They are rising from the east, destroying visible and invisible worms. (6)
"O enemy- Indra! Give me so much power that the waters of the rivers begin to flow upside down by My will. Let the lion sent by me drive away the lion who swooped on him and drive away the pig from the vulture forest." 
Yajnakarmashak and meritorious adhwaryu, inspired by the spirit of performing yajna, serves Savita Dev through havya and praises. 
O Indra! Give us a thousand, ten thousand and a hundred things you want. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the dulok, so go to dulok. 
O best of the Bharatas, whatever moving or unmoving being you see in existence, know it to be a combination of the field of activities and the knower of the field.
Horse's walk. The place of sitting and rolling, the means of tying the horse's feet, its drinking water and the grass that has been eaten, may all these gods get. 
O pestle! You are made of the earth. That's why you are the earth. The earth and your body are the same. That's why I'm hitting the earth on earth. O O O O Son! You should be separated from the husk from the pain that is happening in your limb due to the receipt of the pestle. I offer you to agni by mantra. (22)
O Indra with the wisdom of giving great fruit! You come to the yagna with a quick-moving and smooth horse. In that yajna you get happiness. 
The summings of agni are high and semen are sharp. It is very bright, beautiful and like the sun. The provider agni has a lot of support in yagyas. (1)
O Indra! Either you attain joy in the ocean located far away or in our yajna. You are really happy because of the water full soma. (2)
Hey Mon! You fall down with power as streams for the consumption of the gods. O mon with intoxicating juices! You sit in the urn. 
O Son of Atharva Rishi, Dadhyan rishi! Praise the worthy and huge mantras of praise, that is, all the time, and make us rich through them. O sage of praise! Praise Savita Dev, endowed with danadi qualities, through your name mantras. (1)
O hosts! Som is the king. Soma we are the king of Brahmins. So, keep your grace on the son of such and such son. May these devas inspire them to get the strength of the great Kshatriya. Please inspire great kingdom and great people's kingdom. Please make us as prosperous as Indra Dev. (40)
O agni! Please fill the holes that have left the people in the whole place. Please be there and established. You have been established here by Indra Dev Agni and Brihaspati Dev. (54)
O Ashwinikumaro! You come to our house to give children on a chariot with the best wheels, lightened and charioteered and cut off the heads of the obstacles of your devotees by hidden anger. 
O ghost! May the agni of the east satisfy you happily from now on. May the agni of garhapatya heat you happily from behind. May dakshinagni be a form of happiness for you and make you warm by becoming your armor. O agni! May you properly protect us from the north direction, from between directions, from space and from violent coming from every direction. (9)
Frogs who sleep for a year wake up from the rain water at the end of the year and speak a speech that pleases Parjanya like the fasting Brahmins. (13)
There is one sun agni beneath this heaven and another above the earth. Between this heaven and earth, both agnis arise together. Those rays related to the sun and agni take shelter between the earth and heaven. Brahmachari becomes their deity with the glory of his penance. (11)
You are going to remove the sins related to yajna etc. towards the gods. You are the one to remove the sins of man related to yajna etc. They are about removing the sins committed against the ancestors. You are the one to remove the sins committed against yourself. You know that you are the one to remove the sins committed unknowingly. Please free us from all sins. (13)
Take the line made by Indra Plough in the field i.e. the trunk and Pusha Dev should protect it. The ploughed land should give us food like barley, wheat etc. in all years by becoming the one who gives us the desired fruit. (4)
O agni! You climb on the river. Go away from here with the tuberculosis disease that is in humans or the tuberculosis that is in cow. Come to the limits of your destiny. (1)
I have made such praises to the earth and to the heavens, which are illuminated in all four directions. Let the parents of the earth and the heavens protect me from condemnable sin and keep me close to you and follow me with what they want. 
O Kashyap! Seven suns live together in your Rochman Chitrabhanu. O Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make staggering decay and tie in your loops. (10)
O the best food-giver and a well-deserved agni! The wiser are to increase you. You give us the best strength. 
Those who know Brahman in this adi purusha know Parameshti. He who knows Parmeshti and Prajapati and who knows the best Brahmin knows God well. (17)
Those who destroy the masters of the aschas and all the cows, the independent, the recipients of praise, the strong enemies of all the yagnakarmas and those who squeeze the som in the yajna, we call upon the same Indra to make our friend with the Maruts. 
This is the wish-filled Ashwinikumaro! Bring you happiness by the chariot in the morning for me to be happy. I, the sage of Sauber, call you just like my father. 
Oh, my father! You go to the best heaven and meet your fathers, yama and the fruits of your shraut, smarta karma. Leave your sin and come to a house called Vriyana and meet the body of adornment. 
O woman! You turn away from me and fill the water and return quickly with the water. At that time the reservoir of drinking the water of the cows should climb on your head to fill the water, that is, take water from that reservoir and keep the water vessel on your head. To take the water in the waters of the reservoir which are worthy of yajna. O wisdom! You should separate the waters worthy of sacrifice and give it up. (13)
O agni! Your ray-like personalities look like the lightning of the raining cloud or the rays of Usha. At that time you feel free to devour the herbs and forests with your mouth. 
Banaspati Dev is full of gold leaves, sweet branches and exquisite fruits. Please increase the vegetation of Indra Dev. The plant gods touch heaven and space with their fierce sacrifice. The plant god pervades the earth. May the plant god bless the hosts with money and hold wealth. Please perform yajna for this. (20)
O Indra! You defeat all beings with your own swiftness and you have a right in all places. 
Hey Mon! Indra's drink has squeezed you. You get rid of the overly intoxicating and intoxicating stream. 
This is a herb called Patha! By Your grace, I will be the one who defeats my sons and you too may be able to despise the curses. In this way, we became the ones to defeat both the nerves. Let me defeat my sauta. (5)
Hey Ritvijo! Start the praiseworthy and great hymn by targeting the eternal friend and Varuna and decide to give them the money. They give pleasure to the hosts and are well-beautified by eating delicious hani. Ghee is collected for them and they are praised in each yagna. Their strength is inviolable and no one doubts about them being gods. 
The deserts said, "O Indra! Yours is the best of everything. No god is as learned as you. O great mighty! "No one can do the things you have done at this time and have not been able to do before." 
The medium voice makes the word forming rain water. It periodically becomes unipodial, binomial, quadrupedal, ashtapadi or navapadi. She sometimes reaches the vast sky with a thousand letters. 
O Serpento! You roam in the forest, with black spots, live in grass, brown, black and malleable. You listen to our statement. Don't live near our friend's house. You should also tell this statement to other serpents. (5)
I admire those somas by the eulogisms who sing to the host. I place the squeezing Mon. 
Home executors, deathless and demure agnis become the forerunners of their maya by inspiring people to perform yajnakarma. 
O Mon! You are the one who moves within the heart, without humility and removes the anger of the gods. O Mon! After getting the friendship of Indra, come quickly and bear our money in the same way as the horse carries the burden. 
O Mon! You do my welfare. You are Bhuvanpati. You travel rapidly towards all the dhams of the world. Don't be the subject of thieves' knowledge. Those opposed to yajna may not know you. Those traveling everywhere may not know you. Sinful wolves may not know you. You go as fast as a hawk. You leave for the host's houses. There are well-equipped yagyashalas. (34)
O air! The black-colored, the riches, and the world-rich earth and the sky follow you. You come to drink som by the pleasurable chariot. 
May the one who increases the gods, the self-growing, the one who is pure by the dashapavittra and the desireful som protect us with his glory. Those who knew the footprints of the cows stolen by the pangs and the knower of the sun had gone to the dark caves through our father Sompan and brought the animals. 
Savita Dev, who wants to donate, the best and the motivator of all, while giving wealth and strength and giving the age of a hundred years from the ancestors, drink the squeezed som. Let him reside in the stomach of Som Savita Dev, which is prevalent all over. (4)
O Sahadevi! You are the owner of herbs. I touch You to soothe the guilt of the conduct committed by the enemy. I empower you to remove the defects arising out of abhichar. (1)
Indra has perfected the deva-earth and space from his body and sees the five devas, the seven elements and the thirty-four devas in many ways. Indra does this work with the help of his wide light of equal form. 
O Sage of Faith! Worship the agni with the holy light like the sage Atri. They are the ones praised by all the ritvijas in the yagnas, those who call the gods and are the most revered among the human beings. 
O Dravida! We call those whom we used to call in ancient times at this time. They are the one who is the summoner, the giver and the master of all. Drink with the seasons in the yagna of Somrup Madhu Pota prepared by the adhwaryugana. 
O patient! We remove tuberculosis in all your organs, all follicles and joints. I also destroy the tuberculosis disease located in your skin and in the eyes with mantras. (23)
O water! You have been named river because of being chastised by the clouds and moving around and making noises. O flowing water! Other names like your udak etc. are also meaningful in the same way. (1)
We want you by the desire of strength and wisdom. We are the best food givers. 
Give us money for the sake of the struggle. Let the victorious hawks in the battle protect us. Friends, Varun Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky respect our prayers. 
O jataved agni! With your flame-like body, you surround the world of slums and space. Your flame-like body goes after the soul of this ghost going to Dulok and completely burn the dead body of this ghost left behind other welfare bodies. (9)
O agni that desires! Let the one who wears my disgust go to you. You accept our words. 
With the power of the mantra, the power of heart disease caused by the staggering bones, loosening the joints of the body and the mucous all over the body should be destroyed. That disease is related to cough and breath. (1)
O stone! Your ancestors are stable from mountain ages. They never leave their place at The Full Work Mountain. These are the ones who enjoy the unstoppable mountains of Soma, those with green trees and complete the earth and the sky with their word. 
O Ashwinikumaro, who is always young, untruthless and bear fruit! Together with the air and the apostles, drink the mon on the secret of both the lasting loving and non-perishable days. 
Yama- O Yummy! I can't touch your body. Such a relationship between brother and sister who knows dharma is called sin. If I do this, this action will destroy my heart, mind and soul. (14)
O Indra of praise and with tears called Hari! We make full praises of your qualities. They deserve to meet you. Accept them to you. Accept all the praises we are doing for you. 
The gods, on their way to heaven, had located their beloved agni as a friend among humans. They are installed by the gods in the house of the agni-giver host and keep on lighting up in their beloved nights for his welfare. 
Those who are not attached to external sense pleasures realize divine bliss in the self. Being united with God through Yog, they experience unending happiness.
The gods appointed the two months of the hemant season from the pole direction i.e. the earth or from the bottom side as its protector and made the earth and agni its ritualists. (14)
 O Mon! Your juice filters and fills the dronalash dripping from the sieve in the same way, by pouring the drinking water with a chullu, filling the water tank completely. 
O sing! You graze grass in a land full of children, beautiful grass and happily drink water in potable ponds etc. No thief can steal you. Even evil animals like tigers cannot eat you. Give up the weapons of Rudra, the god of fever. (1)
The prosperous place that the host attains in heaven by performing the session yajna can be found by serving the guest. (6)
O ghost! May the black sesame seeds I scatter for you, you may find plenty in the hereafter and may Yamraj command you to eat them. (27)
They walk as squeezed mons, powerful, non-violent, protectors of the gods and sinners. 
O Ashwinikumaro! May the seven horses of the yajnasaves take you to the three savantes permitted by us. Hey leaders! You sit on the cushions while giving food to the host who makes beautiful gifts and performs good deeds. 
Praise the only Indra who was born as the lord of the people, the special seer and the rain-doer. 
He who knows this, brings milk and food for the guest. (1)
When water did not rain from the sky on the earth and the land that gave money was not full of anthropogenic crops, the rainy man Indra picked up the thunderbolt in his hand and with the help of a shining thunderbolt, milked the water that fell down from the cloud spreading darkness completely. 
The gods who complete the sky with their brightness, the agni-like tongue, and the ones who increase the yajna, identify their place in the yajna. By holding the sky, they draw water from their power and embellish the objects of yajna in their body. 
O Mon! This is part of your Gayatri (verse). This is part of the Trishtupa (verse) for Som. This is part of our world (verse) for Som. You (purohit) make this request for Som on our behalf. You should also request Som that he is ours. Planets like Venus etc. are under their control. You are selected only by thinking .. (24)
The true, the revolutionary and the pure, Som, listening to our praise, sits on the Dashapavitra, holding the best power. 
O Indra! You should do sompan with the vessel of the Brahmanachhansi priest after the seasons. Your friendship is not going to break. 
May Indra please give me the same miraculous and wealthy birth, which the Son receives the wealth of the Father. The host's wife calls the host to her by good words. Somras go well to that perfect man. 
 O Indra! You are great. By your grace, even our modest prayers get praise. These prayers of ours also praise you. Therefore, you are pleased with the host. 
With the inspiration of Adhavryu, the errant Som goes to Dashapavitra and relaxes the fortified cities of the enemies. 
O you are pure, Mon! You give us quick children's money, make water a pleasure for all, and increase the faith of the stota. O Mon who receives wealth by wisdom! Come quickly to our yajna. 
All the devgans and the infatuated deserts without death could not achieve the present agni on our beloved and all sides, even though they wanted to die. Without agni, they became sad and were tired of walking and were present in the place of agni, seeing the light. 
O yellow-leaved and auspicious herb! You are about to captivate. you inspire that woman to come close to me by being filled with fruits. after this Kamini meet with me. (3)
This cow form Dakshina is coming to those who perform this sanskar. Giving beautiful fruits and milk-like food, this cow remained young even in old age. The man who was cremated should take it to the ancestors of the former period. (50)
We ask for beautiful, beautiful, armed and mountain-like people, sons and grandsons who speak to Indra, with thousands and hundreds of riches and ask for food soon. 
O God of Agni! This yajna form is part of the food gods. Convey it and the hives to the gods in every season. Make this havya delicious by mixing it with honey and ghee. (10)
Just as a lamp in a windless place does not flicker, so the disciplined mind of a yogi remains steady in meditation on the self.
The ganglion that sheds the pus and the form of a wound will go away from this man's body. The sorrow caused by this wound will be destroyed and the moon will not keep the pain of the ganges. (3)
Those who want to serve and sit on their knees and fill the somaras in the characters and fill the somras in the characters and pour out the agni with the adhwaryu havan. O teacher! Carry the barhi, soaked in ghee and with large drops, in the agni with a havya. 
The gods considered the Supreme Man to be Havi. In that yajna, ghee became spring, fuel summer season and havi autumn. (14)
These are the adorned and deity-like orni! The person who gives you a hug is rich. They give money to the agni god host, to whom the money seeker goes to ask for a hymn. 
O agni as bright as the sun and all the bright and soothing agni! You come before us by these revered hymns of ours. 
O agni! Give us the immediate destruction of poverty, the one who is a selective and a riche by enemies in all the battles. 
Our chariots are house-abiding, aged, protected, tolerant, strong, serious, well-armed and very strong. They are determined and counter enemies. (46)
O Savita! May the famous wealth you have given us come from heaven, from heaven and from the sky and from the forgotten.  The wealth that will bring happiness to the children of the Psalms, give the same to the one who praises me very much. 
We have found the easy and sinless path on which all enemies are destroyed and wealth is obtained. 
May Aditi give us peace with yajnakarmo. May the deserts of adornment be peaceful for us. May Vishnu and Pusha rest in peace for us. May space and air give us peace. 
O thunderbolt Indra! To give us the desired fruit, know our hymn, holy as a curse, by listening to which you immediately fulfill our desire by your own strength. 
May Saraswati help us to get rid of all the enemies and cross other rivers full of water. Just as the sun moves forever, so may Saraswati flow forever. 
If you cannot practice remembering me with devotion, then just try to work for me. Thus performing devotional service to me, you shall achieve the stage of perfection.
The moon with the present beautiful rays in the udakamaya mandala swings into the sky. O golden moons! Being covered by a well, my senses do not receive your forearm. O earth and sky! Get to know this hymn of ours. 
Goddess Saraswati is the one who sanctifies and gives food and wealth. May Saraswati come to this yagna of ours with wealth. 
In the Indradi devas, the strong mountains were relaxed by the karma of The Shareshtha Jupiter and the stable trees were broken. Jupiter saved the cows, abolished the asura by the power of the mantra and illuminated the sun by ending the darkness. 
May Savita Dev come with the seasons, grow our houses and give us food with sons and grandsons. May they be happy with us day and night and give us wealth with sons and grandsons. 
Weak people, being without knowledge, know the yajnakarmas which do not know, and the most sacrificial ones know agni. They should perform the yajna of the gods at the right time of yajna. 
The jars of the white-colored Agni Usha illuminate all the substances like the Sun and the illuminators fill the earth and sky with their brightness like the Sun. O agni! You become enlightened and permeate the whole world through your karma. You are the angels of the gods like the Son, but you are their guardian like the Father. 
Indra with these rays reveals the day with his light spreading towards all directions and overcomes all darkness and sins. (13)
O arrogant cruel vampire of evil self! You have come to earth from Yamlok. You fearlessly approach women and men. Knowing the increase and loss of the age of the bodily beings, you attain Yamlok through a helpful chariot, creating the pain of dreams in the heart, the intimate place of the soul. (1)
The non-violent by demons, etc., and the agni that moves well in human beings and without death, become messengers of all gods. 
O godly Indra and Vishnu! The hosts who drink the leftover somras from the yajna revere your glorious arrival at the place of yajna. Both of you always provide food for the host in the form of yajnaphal with the enemy's glorious fire. 
O Mon! You grow all these oozings. You raised the water. You raised cows. You expanded the space. You made the world astrological. You have been kind to remove darkness. (22)
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan in the upward direction from our place of residence, they do our violence from the upward direction. Those enemies should turn away from us and burn. We kill those magicians by returning their witchcraft to them. (7)
Hey friend and Varun! You protect Agastya, Angiras, Jamadagni and Atri Rishi. May the friends and Varuna who protected Kashyapa and Vasishtha rishis redeem us from sin. (3)
As many waves of the rivers flowing rapidly into the ocean, so are all these great warriors entering into your blazing mouths. As moths rush with great speed into the fire to perish, so are all these armies entering with great speed into your mouths.
O Mon! The peacemaker should wear me to the host on all sides for eternal life and for the work of providing gifts etc. from the senses. This peacemaker remained awake when all the senses remained active for a long time. Get it old. (3)
O Brahmins, pitaros and those who make the soma who enhance the yajna! Protect us. May sinless god-earth do us good. God protect us from sin. Let the enemy not be our master. 
O you who want harmony! May your resolve be the same. Let the hearts that produce your resolutions be the same. Your mind should be uniform, so that you can do all the work properly. (3)
It's been som squeezed. Tejasvi Marudgana and Ashwinikumar themselves drink part of it. 
Usha Devi shines on the vast day and night. They are great and succulent. Indra Dev, the god of gods, is also made a destination. (41)
 Varun increases those who do not treason. They are the guardians of truth from truth. They are the most powerful. 
The audience appreciates the many commendable works that Indra has done. Indra, who subdued the enemies, has destroyed the sinful demons with his astro and destroyed the powerful asuras. (6)
O protector of all the people, having divine qualities and sacrificial friends and Varuna among the gods! Come to the host for the gift of the greetings.' It's a sage! You should worship the sacrificial and holy-powered friend and Varuna. 
O sacrificial horse! All your activities like getting out, sitting, moving, turning, eating, drinking, etc. should be in the middle of the gods. (38)
Those who praise My best sacrificial work, let the brave leaders defeat the Maya of the asuras in wars. 
O mortals who go to the yagnasthala! We call you when the omnipresent and prized somras are ready and pick up the best and golden-colored khuch and ask you for the best money by the best of praises. 
Hey Mon! Aim at our yajna and drop your juice from the jhuloka to a vessel called Chamu. Som give us the desired, great, brave offspring and full of strong food. 
O Indra! You are all the publishers of Opulence. May I also be the publisher of complete opulence by your grace, may I live for a hundred years. (4)
This medicine, created by Jupiter, was worn by the world gods. We endow this medicine with the bhaga that has entered the cows. (55)
 Indra is vajradhari and powerful. They are going to rain by penetrating the clouds. They built the banks of rivers and shed water from the mountains. I describe these good deeds of him again and again. 
The Sun is the manifestation of yajna and the face form of yajna. With speech, speech and mind, I sacrifice for those suns. All the gods go near the sun, being pleased. May those suns elevate me to Sangram. (13)
 Somayag is done to please Indra. Ten fingers muscles and purify someras. 
If, adhwaryu, avya, agnimidh, grawagram, santha and subipra fill the rivers with water by that famous and well-groomed yajna. 
The face of this yajnaatma man was Brahmin. His arms were Kshatriyas. From the central part of it, there were men of the Vaishya jati and shudra originated from both its phases. (6)
O Gods! The agni should not bring the desire of the godless man who wants to perform the yajna to you. The gods should not go to the yajna of that godless man and come to my yajna. (3)
O Maruts! The one you protect in battle has neither a motivator nor a violent one. The one whose sons, grandsons, cows and water you protect, he destroys even the cows of a brilliant enemy in battle. 
O Indra! The mon who has brought for you from his feet, Sheen, who has been caught from his feet, is a bearer, readerless, red-colored and is going to produce food through yajna. Give food and a lifeable age for Mon and befriend him. 
Where birds consider delicious fruits like the nectar of karma, they protect the world and finally enter the sunland. (22)
O Kanva Gotraotpan Rishis! Aim and praise the desolate and unsavory maruts. They are adorned on their chariots. 
One who performs havan by the order of such a learned fast holder goes on the path of Pitrayana and Devayan. (5)
Indra Dev is a rich man, a lover of the interests of the hosts and is strong. He performs yagna for Kush by sitting on the seat of Kush. They should sit on the seat of Kusha along with Vasu, Rudra, Aditya and other gods with them and take the havi. Please perform yajna for them. (4)
At the time of that creation, the tenacity and deeds of God, who created the creation, were located at that time. This penance and karma was the mantra of the ocean of the holocaust period. On the muhurat of marriage, only those who were tied with the girl side were going to get married. Brahma was the greatest groom among them. (2)
The evil comrades had abandoned Bhujyu in the sea. O aschinikumaro! You've crossed him. He was your devotee and a friendly. 
I remove the poverty which is going to destroy the tree, the creeper, the human being, etc., from this world and the hereafter. O Brahmanaspati with sharp speed! Remove this dan antagonistic poverty from here. 
O King Varuna! Forsake us from all these disease places and save us from the sins related to them. O Swami of waters and without violence! Save us from the sin we have committed by chanting the names of famous gods. (2)
I call the name of agni first of the gods. They will let me live on this vast earth, so that I can see my parents. 
O Vayu Dev! With the power to spread your anger, anger those who hate us or those we hate. (1)
O agni! I water you with ghee, increasing you with the means of home. Due to ghrit, the agni, the moon and the sun have increased, O man who wears the trivrita gem! Don't demonize your life. (5)
Amanak is a mantsak. (9)
O Indra! We ask for the same force that you have in the five varnas of Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras and Nishads. (2)
O Savita Dev! Make us shameless. The stos of the rich hosts praise you. Indra, like our force, we should come to the yagna of the human beings quickly by adding horses of the same velocity as the wind in the chariot with our wheels. 
Thousands of Ganas of Rudra Dev, who subdued many people, are on this earth. They should keep the bows of their ganas away from us. (55)
O strong agni! Friends, Varuna, Vishvedeva and The Desert target you and hold on to the hymns, because you are the Son of power and the Sun, and the rays that show the way to man are scattered everywhere and are illuminated with light. 
Oh my friend and Varun! The food-holding adhwaryu serves you for the powerful friendship of both of you. By gaining your friendship, the Sage Of Angiragotriya will hear the friendly words of all the places. Just as it is pleasant to walk the ancient way, so do you give us your beloved and true praise. 
Hey Varun! Just as the dishonest gambler commits a deliberate crime, so do you remove from us the sin we have committed knowingly or unknowingly as a ripe fruit. Hey Varun! Let's be your beloved. 
We always praise the same best of the saints. They give us a thousand songs, scholars and deserve thousands of praises. 
O God of agni performed havan by the knowers and ahutis of beings born! The brighter you are, the brighter you are in the sun and the faster it is in the hands of asuras, the more sharp Ashwinikumar, adorned with a lotus garland, should wear in me. (4)
Indra threw the thunderbolt when he heard the praises of the Angiragotrian sages. This spread the rays of the incoming Usha all over the place. By eliminating the group of darkness, the sun is illuminated and opens the doors of human beings. 
The gods said, "O agni! Come, the host desires the gods and is willing to perform yajna. You are in darkness even while holding the radiant mass. Make the way of those who come towards the gods easy and be happy and carry the greetings. 
May they all be seers, being holy and stripped of dasapavittra, make us sinless. 
Usha, the leader of the praises, destroys darkness and gives us the famous wealth everywhere. We vasishthagotriya sages praise this. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
The panis said – “O beautiful Sarma who comes from the last limits of heaven! of these cows You can take whomever you want. Who would have given you these songs without war? Well we have sharp weapons.” 
O Indra! When the unique vritra struck your thunderbolt in the stroke of all the weapons, you were saved by turning around like a horse's tail. Oh, Shur! You won the cows hidden in the mountain cave by the panai and also conquered Mon. You made the flow of seven rivers uninterrupted. 
O agni! You always give the Psalms a land that they can get to sing while doing many yajnakarmas. Give us a son who will expand our seed and produce children. May you have a good sense of wisdom towards us. 
A vasa cow full of anger roams around eating its master. She says that the fool who knows me to the pregnant woman should fall into the bonds of death. (37)
Hey, Lord! Don't you go away from here. We won't keep you thirsty more. O God, Rich! Be pleased with Indra, the Deserts and the radiant gods to give money in the unadorned form. 
The beautiful rays of the sun go to heaven after absorbing the water and return from the water place in Dakshinayan, O Rohitdev, the criminals of those angry gods and the violent of the learned Brahmins! Make the weak by staggering and tie it in your loop. (9)
O indra without a little! May your well-praised and wishing horses bring your chariot here. O very happy Indra! We beg you. 
O Satyarup Aschinikumaro! Just as the scholar Sage Atri called you to drink someras through his praises, so do I. Ashwinikumar kill all the enemies. 
O Shur Indra! You hear me invoking Prithu Rishi. The mantras of me Venputra praise you. I have come to the ghritukta yajnashala and praised you. The stotas are running in the same way as the streams of ghee falling down. 
Indra, who knows well the hymns of happiness, should give food containing horses and cows to the yajnas and worshipers. 
O Indra! How do you beautify by the praises we have made? O Dhanaswami Indra! When shall we please you? I speak all the praises while I wish you, so listen to these praises of mine. 
Related to the Sun and the chief som becomes radiant. The som who showers water reinforces the beings by wanting food. Through the wisdom of these wise somas, the gods who see human beings make up the world and the guardian god conceives in the medicines. 
O Indra! You go in front of all the somras that are squeezed in nearby or distant places. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Food and sweet purodash were prepared for both of you. The Sun ascends into the bright space and friends, Aryama and Varuna, having equal love, decide the way for them. 
In the upper part, taken from ghee, honey, rich in milk, full of thousands of powers due to being accepted by all the gods, being protected by Indra's armor, endowed with a hundred forces, who provide food to the gem-holding man, gives happiness, provides convenience, gives food and milk etc. (6)
Our praise is received by the great, the moving, the young and the advanced Indra by the undefeated force of the enemies for the sake of charity. Indra had increased in greater quantity as soon as he was born. 
Rudra Dev is a benefactor, destroyer of gross sins, calm and strong. Rudradev should keep a welfare grace on us. (2)
I call Indra and Agni to this yajna and wish to praise both of them. Those two who are extremely willing to do sompan drink somras. 
Oh, the workman! Be our messengers, save us from objections and be our givers. May you be enlightened and lighted and awake by protecting our bodies and that of our sons. 
May this sacrifice of the sages who compose a richa be well received. (20)
You find water, the original place of agni and growth with the sea. You are great. You are as wide as earth. You attain the divinity of heaven. (2)
We give you the north direction, the serpent named Som, Swaj and Ashani. Protect it until we leave here. Let us get it in the form of luck till old age. May our old age give it death. When we die, let us find joy in heaven with this baked odan. (58)
 O Mon! Please shower divinity on heaven and earth. You give food. Give us such capability so that we cannot tolerate enemies. 
O Indra and Soma! Defeat the evil-speaking and sinful monster. That demon should get angry and burn like food poured in the agni. You two brahmins who hate non-vegetarians and now whom to eat, now whom to eat, and wear hatred and opposition behind the demon. (2)
O Maruto! Your importance is admirable and the appearance is as beautiful as the sun. You make us deathless. The chariot of the maruts going towards the water runs behind the back. 
O aschinikumaro of the true form! The learned ritwij and the stones used to squeeze the somras come before you for the paan of somras through their respective comers. Ashwinikumar kill our enemies. 
Indra, who protects the somayagya who is the one who does somayagya among the two war-doers, makes him unbeatable with the vajra. He who does not do somayagna is ready to fight with the one who hurls sharp arrows, but is bound in darkness. 
Praise the agni that takes shelter of a tree-like forest like a bird, the giver of food, the radiant, the word-maker, the most burning of the forests, the very lustful, the bull-like energy, who creates the path like the great sun with its light. 
The place with moong is the home of this fever and it is the place of great rain of semen. O Takma! You have been born as much as you are in the outer land. (5)
O Indra! The day he overcame the objections by adding simple steps horses to his chariot like the food that the wise dogs receive, O Indra, the lord of the shiny and air-like fast ashchas! That day you went in a chariot with Kuts, wishing to protect him. 
Oh, God! The sinner has great sin and the sinless has the best virtue. O sinless Adityas! Fulfill our desire. 
O Indra! By knowledge and force you destroy the enemy. You defeat all beings by your karma and force. This hymn that worships you is in your service for the sake of protecting you. The sages of the Gautama dynasty have revealed you in their yajna. 
 O wind! You come by your vehicle. Glazed somers has been prepared for you. You come to the house of the host who prepares someras by law. You come to our place. 
The most powerful and praising Mons drip for annaparna and yajnapurpurna. 
Jupiter appears in the supreme vyom from the great astrology cycle. They erase darkness by becoming Jupiter sapta rashmi. (4)
O Ashwinikumaro! You kill your enemies and walk with your friends. Give us children and money. You join Usha and Surya and strengthen us. 
Giving food for the guest is a prajapatya yagya. (11)
Hey Ritvijo! You perform havan for Indra in the host's house by speaking the word Swaha. In that we call the gods. 
 O Indra! You are strong and light. You praise your worshippers. You are rich. There is no one to give happiness except you. That's why I praise you. 
Hey Mon! Run around for our well-being. You cover the milk, curd by being sanctified by the leaders of the yajnakarma. Inspire Indra to give us great wealth because of the words, the enemies and the great rasas that you have. 
The fingers of the sage Trinity crush the green-colored som with stones for Indra's drink. 
Indra's two horses named Hari have obtained grass in the forest. Indra succeeded in killing Vritra by becoming rich with the help of these two horses and money. Indra is the master of bright, powerful, great and wealth. 
O you who have the wealth of yajna, you! You may recite the praises of the friend and the worthy of service to the Aryama and the hymns produced in the yajnashala. Sing happy songs for Varun and praise the brightest friends, Aryama and Varun. 
O Indra who gave birth to the earth etc! You became very large and surrounded the water and killed the demon who was sleeping and thinking of himself as a rebel. When you press the earth beside you, heaven does not know your glory. 
Please protect the peripheries (enclosures) of vishwavasu gandharva yajna. For the prevention of all types of evil (inauspicious) of the host, they worship the peripheries of agni and yajna. Yajnaparidhi is the right arm of Indra. It is going to protect the host. They worship the periphery of agni and yajna for the prevention of all kinds of evil (inauspicious) of the host. Friends and Varuna should be pleased to wear the periphery of the yajna with religion from the north. We worship the periphery of agni and yajna to remove all kinds of evil (amangal) of the host. (3)
O Ashwinikumar! You desire our clothes and water, for you accept these things of the sages. You attracted the previous couples. You give us many gems. 
O leader vajgan and ribhugan! Come to us praising the great riches. At the end of the day i.e. the third evening, the panable somras comes close to you in the same way that the cows with calves come towards their house. 
I had gone to kurushravana, the best money lender and son of Tarshadsyu, to ask for money to give it to the sage hosts. 
When the medicine spreads (spread) in the organs of the hard body, then tuberculosis etc. also completely eliminates terrible diseases. (86)
Soma is the one who showers water, protects everyone and is divine. First of all, they gained prestige by producing people in heaven, and then by filtering them with a natural sieve over the earth, they gained growth. 
Those who hold the Varun Bhuvanas and know the names hidden in the Rashmis and Guha, they are the ones who nurture poetic poems as the wise Varuna Jhuloka. They eliminate all the shajrus. 
O thunderbolt Indra! With your anger, these great earths and the heavens tremble in fear, for you, together with the maruts, have killed Vrithra with your power and demonstrated your authority. 
Build this school by installing Indra and Jupiter pillars. Irrigate this school with water and god should make the land around it suitable for agriculture. (4)
Two horses named Hari are well-taught and have white hairs, who are skilled in running. Indra, the lord of these horses, should come to daan. 
O praiseworthy Indra! You also made the terrible stream of the Parushni river shallow and easily transgressible for the Sudas king. You destroyed the curse against the Stota, which floods the rivers and stops their flow. 
O like-like tribes! Look carefully at this collected faith group. This phantom is attaining immortality. You all build the house for this. (37)
 O Mon! You are known by scholars and are watery. You are filtered in the sieve and located in the dronakalash at the same speed, just as the horses going to the battle site are located there with speed. You keep us away from bad things and habits. Give us all the happiness. 
 May all the gods please listen to our revered stotras. Please listen to our hymns, both heaven and earthland. Listen to our hymns of Agni. We should never speak unpleasant and unspeakable words. May we be in the grace of the gods. Be happy with the happiness given by them. 
This Aditidevi has been describing the yajna with kushas and prokshanis. (6)
O aschinikumaro! You two give us enough strength. Make us happy with your honey-made kasha, increase our age, remove our sins, destroy our enemies, and be our companions in all work. 
O holy agni! Give us food-enhancing and praiseworthy money. O nearby and property-like agni! Give us money through your shobhan leadership that is desirable and very prestigious by many. 
The water that originates from space, flows in the form of rivers, which is dug out, or which is produced on its own and moves towards the ocean, which is glistening and sanctifying, those goddesses of water to protect us here. 
O Indra! You threw the iron vajra, brought by The Ribhu from the sky, to the fast-moving Shushna asura towards the moving Shushna asura. O Puruhoot! At that time, you had tortured Shushna by committing violence by many means of violation for the welfare of the sage Kutsa. 
O work! You are distinguished by your ability. O broad and special luminous! You treat us like friends. O work! You tolerate enemy armies when you are angry. Give the host such strength that is capable of defeating the enemy. (2)
O praise worthy Indra! Shine the characters and let the mons squeezed by us come to you. You drink this mon. Come to you from all around like charu-purodash etc. 
O Indra! You be firm. You are about to fulfill the desire. You get the welfare praise that performs the yajna. 
O Vasa Gau! When the rich man, i.e. Kubera, filled in anger, takes your milk, heaven preserves it in three vessels. (11)
While wishing for the milk of cows, the demons get poison from them. The demons with evil movements should be shattered for the happiness of the earth that shelters everyone, that is, they cannot find the substances received on the ground. Savita Dev should hand over these demons to the brides. Do not become partners in all these wheat, barley etc. (16)
O daughter of heaven and Ushadevi who brings wealth! You end our darkness. O Shaktishalini, Usha, who is born and blessed with amazing praise! You removed the darkness of The Vasyaputra Satyasrava. 
O Indra! Let down the power of the lowly enemy who is born like us who wants to destroy us in the same way that the sky puts the earth down from itself. Let the cords of the bows of our enemies be destroyed. 
O Indra! Your feet are great. At the time you walk, the sages and the gods present there grow. You hold a thousand wolves in your mouth and you can turn the ashchinakumaras. 
O Indra, the destroyer of sin! The men who follow the path of the pious people of ancient times, you always look at them with grace. (18)
May the afternoon and evening be virtuous for us. Apart from this, the morning and the whole night should also be auspicious for us. (2)
Indra, who is the best among the gods and protects the yagnas, has told about the agni contained in the water by Adhwaryu. O agni! The scholar Indra saw you later, I have come to you according to the teachings of the same Indra. 
O agni! The earth and space gave birth to you. The Creator of Shobhan birth created you. O father who knows the way and the blazing agni! You are radiant and glorious. 
Som is sanctified for Yama in the yajna. Havi is given for Yama. The yajna, adorned with various types of liquids, goes to Yama by making agni an angel. These jyotishtoms etc. are received by Yama. (1)
Meritorious men, who block virtues in medicines,  praise agni with flowers, fruits etc., present in the yagyagriha in the middle of water, first praise Agni, the giver of knowledge and the lord of all food, and then perform actions. 
The five-fingered hand, which has delivered poison to the man's body through a bow bow due to the string being mounted, I make that hand ineffective with the help of mantras with a piece of betel nut tree. (4)
Those whose rays are particularly bright, the sun is rising in the east direction. He is rising with a desire to provide a husband to this husbandless girl and a wife to a womanless man. (1)
O agni! Ninety-nine thousand substances in the chariot were given to you in a homily. O brave agni! Raise up your body from them and rain down for us from the sky. 
Indra Dev has increased the beneficial waters through the clouds that run voluntarily. These waters also break the stones with their words and when desired, they spread on the transiting land. (6)
Indra is the year of fruits, that is, giving the fruits of yajna to everyone. They should come by making the earth rich with crops through rainwater. Ritwij Yajna is working. The seven stotas are praising Indra through shobhan stotras. (3)
O gathering! I know your names. Your name is not going to be overwhelmed by others. All the members who belong to you should be those who speak like Me, that is, to approve of Me. (2)
This is our dedication to the earth. (6)
O Indra! With the help of beautiful horses come to us from the distant land and drink this squeezed somras. 
The unsettling Somdev! Give us thousands of wealth and glory. 
O Brahmaspati! You are the unique giver, the one who fulfills the will of the mind, the one who goes to war and destroys the enemies in the battlefield. You are the true mighty, the debt-payers, and the oppressors of the angry people of the opinion. 
 Hey Wayne! Worshippers desire to get you from the heart. With this desire they look up. Then they find you near agni 
O Indra and Ashwinikumaro! You are very served and come to this yagna of mine today with the gods. 
The wives of gandharvas, apsaras should go to their place of residence in the same way as those who cross the river reach near the sailor. O nymphs! Scared of the havan of Guggulu, Peela, Nalvi, Okshgandhi and Pramandini, go to your place of residence and stay there. (3)
The only pushas protect the way and know all the money like a thief. 
We call indra, the one who is the lord of the walking and breathing creatures, who saved the cows abducted by Pani for the sake of Brahmins before all the gods and who killed the asuras by making them inferior, we call the same Indra with the Maruts to make them our sakha. 
O ghost! According to the mantras, the paddy given goes to Yamlok and becomes the satiating cow and the mole becomes the calf of that money cow. In the kingdom of Pret Yama, he survives depending on the cow made from those paddy. (32)
Agni Dev is everywhere in a moving and multi-colored flames. He is sitting on a seat near Mother Earth. In the yajna, he has reached heavenly father. (6)
The screeching mons are situated on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair, just as the man sitting in the chariot holds the armor. The somas admired by the Psalms fall as streams filling in the Dronakalash. 
O Indra! You should drink the very powerful factor, the destroyer of bad dreams and the shining someras to protect us. (1)
 Someras is a source of joy and a giver of success. He fulfills the wishes by constantly reaching the yajna. 
O leader of the yajna, adhwaryugan! Create the agni by churning out the artisan, with the mind and speech doing the same deeds, with a knowledgeable, without death and with the awe-inspiring organs. Hey leaders! Produce the agni that indicates yajna, the main and the joyful agni before the yajnakarma. 
 O Vishnu! You are rashmivan and respected. I and scholars also praise you. We are far from your Vishnulok, yet we praise you from our lok just like a younger brother does. 
O Indra! May I attain the same dominion as you and be the giver of wealth to those who praise. The rich who commit sinful deeds should not disturb me. (1)
May the sun with spread radiance rise to give us happiness. All four directions, stable mountains, rivers and water should be good for us. (8)
Salutations to the lower direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (29)
When sage Shruterva came near to me and praised me, I subdued the asura named Ranthaya for his welfare. I subdued the disguise asura as a humble sage and the shadgribhi asura for the welfare of the sage Savya. 
May this sacrifice be well received for all learned Angira Ganas. (18)
The devas had kept Indra as the master in their forearm to kill Vritra. The vanis properly praise Indra for getting proper strength. 
O Indra Dev! You are going to perform Goman and hundreds of yagyas. You come (to the yagna). Please drink someras. We have prepared somers by crushing with stones, squeezing it. You are Goman. We accept you in upyam for Goman Indra Dev. Upyum is your native place. (4)
 Som graces space. They are as strong and green as horses. They filter in the sieve. They go to Indra. 
Sarma said, "Hey pani! Your talk is not the same as the words of the soldiers. Shouldn't your sinful bodies fall prey to Indra's arrows? Will your path not be overthrown by the invading gods? If you don't obey me, don't let Brahaspati 
O very young agni! Sing troubled by the cold Just as you go to the hot animal shed, the hosts serve you to get the fruit. O great agni! You are the messengers of gods and human beings and walk in space from between the divine and the earth. 
The sun that the creators did not give up the work of the world and created in order to remove darkness in all ways, the seven great horses named Hari, the sun that knows all beings, pierces the sun. 
Brahma has established the land and Brahma has located Dyau in its upper part. Brahma is the top and slant and Brahman has created the beneficial space of many beings. (25)
The rays of the Sun God come out to influence the world. Everyone who knows everyone can see the sun, so that their rays rise up. (16)
Let the Dravinda fire provide us with all the heard properties. Let us put them in the devyagna. 
 O Indra Dev! You are the owner of horses, the owner of cows and fertile land, and the one who drinks somerus. We invite you to drink somerous. You come and drink somers. 
O Vaishvanar (agni)! You are Ritavan (Satyavan) and Amar. You are the master of light. We want force from you. You have been eclipsed in the upyama. You have been eclipsed in the upyam for agni. That's your native place. (6)
O Manu! Your force is going to defeat. You are self-styled, angry, tolerant of enemies, seer of the world, tolerant and tolerant. You give us strength in battle. (4)
Hey Kamini! As the mouth of those who do not drink water becomes dry, so you be fed up with the spirit of desire. You come close to me with a dry mouth. (4)
O hundred knots of medicine! You are the one who subdues the enemies and I am equipped with the means and strength of the enemy's violence. Both of us should defeat our enemies by suppressing the enemy. (5)
Being born in the yagyagriha, Agni is joyful and happy like a son, who is going to drive away enemies in battle like a horse. When I call upon the gods who reside together with the sages, then this agni itself takes the form of those gods. 
We may find the famous place of Pavman Som, where all the hymns gather. The light of Som for the day protected Manu well, which gave him light, and Soma had done his fast to destroy the demons. 
O man suffering from ascites disease! From your tongue you have made more untrue speech as a means of sin. I protect you from the wrath of the truthful dharma and the stunning Varuna. (3)
O Indra! Just as you are pleased with the kings of Rum, Rusham, Shyavak and Krip, the Sages of Kanvagotriya, who remember the psalms, recite hymns to you. You come. 
Sages like Prajapati's son Angira etc cooked the thick goat. The dice of the gods were thrown in the place of gaming. Two of these angiras started walking in the water to purify their bodies with the chanting of mantras about Kapila, who gave the same happiness as wealth. 
O agni lord of power! You give us the money with a warm glow. Protect our sons, grandchildren and the present wealth in wars. 
O you of a disgusting agni! May our praises be to all the parents to make you happy. Give the praises money, food and peace. 
 O hosts! We invoke Takshya 
 In the violence-free yajna with stotra, the agni god is established first of all. Stones and asanas extracting juice from Somlata are also installed. O Maruto! O Brahmanaspati! O God! We request to protect ourselves through Vedamantras. 
The agnis that are pervaded, guarded, beloved and fast-wearing without decay protect the ultimate place. Fire knows all those bhuvanas. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
This stotao! You pick up the intoxicating som, squeezed for Indra and Air, from this place and water it on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
O Indra! The demons are going to stop the way, so be firm and give the desired fruit to the host who performs yajna and praise and to his son. Kill the evil armament throwers, the slow walkers, the killers and the enemy with a swordsman. 
O nourishing and untruthless Ashwinikumaro! For the benefit of the praise group and virgo, reach as early as an arrow and bring suryaputri. The praises that are made in the yajna related to Varuna are actually oriented to you. 
Among the hosts who enter the place of yajna, the beloved, purifying, dwelling, selectable agni has been installed. They are determined to be the enemies, the nurturers of our homes and the lords of wealth in the yagna bhavan. 
O agni! You are the master and wealth giver of wealth. Please remove our malice. Swaha for the agni of all karma. (43)
Those who enlarge their bodies with praises in Somayag. They become dormant when Soma comes by the command of Indra. O Indra! You bring us food by speaking the same words as men. O Shur Indra! You bear the name 'Dan Swami' in heaven. 
Yama gave birth to the Aschinikumaras. The front of my tongue to praise them is playful. Coming at the beginning of the dark-burning day, he is associated with the yagnakarmas of Ashwinikumara in the morning. 
O agni! The sage named Kaviputra Ushana had installed the Jattveda Agni, who performed yajna in front of you for the welfare of King Manu. 
O Indra! You wish to meet as soon as you appear and desire victory in war. You have no enemies left. (1)
O Indra! I have received hundreds and thousands of money from Tarinder, the son of Parshu. 
Mother Earth produces food. We express the glory of Mother Earth by singing with speech. All the world and folk are included in it. May Savita Dev be pleased to reverse our position on this earth. (30)
Arjun said: O Shree Krishna, you praised karm sanyās (the path of renunciation of actions), and you also advised to do karm yog (work with devotion). Please tell me decisively which of the two is more beneficial?
O God! Your fathers and sons should also pay attention to my prayer about this man. I hand over to all of you this man who wishes for a long life. You should do it till its old age. (2)
The man who knows this becomes the beloved abode of seasons, substances, folk, months, sides, days and nights. (18)
May the life of the whole world protect your age. They are already present in your destination heaven. Where virtuous people live, they have gone, Pusha take you there. 
Following the path of arsh rishis, the host selected all the gods in the yajna. The host performed the yajna with the wish of opulence. These devgans made divine donations for the host. Hey be it! You invoke all the gods. You invoke all the gods with gentle speech. You invoke the gods with good speech formulas. (61)
No god can keep the kind of bright, splendid and sweet milk I have wearing in the trunks of these cows. Just as water flows in the river, milk remains in the breasts and it becomes pleasant together in the somras. 
O son of the sun and the working aschinikumaro! In which place do you go to hear the praise of the present poem? Just as only someone knows the kalash filled with gold and buried in the earth, so you brought out the sage Rebh lying in the well on the tenth day. 
The ritwij, situated in a high place like a buffalo, milks the som placed in the middle of the stones to satisfy and undress. The hymns serve the desireing mon. Indra, located in three places, holds the Shatrunivarak Som in space for enmity. 
This entire cosmic manifestation is pervaded by me in my unmanifest form. All living beings dwell in me, but I do not dwell in them.
Above all, mati is distinguished. While meditating on the same mind, they honor it. Hemant Ritu was born from speech. The line verse originated from Hemant. The row generated a death row. The study originated from the passing away of the universe. Tristrins originated from the courtyard. Shakvar and Raivat Sam were born from Trinava and Triastrinsh. The head of all this is Vishwaka Rishi. With the cooperation taken from Prajapati, we accept speech for the people. While singing the hymn for the people, we invoke Indra Dev. (58)
The cloud burns, foretells him, exalts in the rain, and gives him perfection by exhaling; he who knows in this way attains the prosperity of people and animals. (7)
The sacrificial deities should deliver the means that come towards the gift of happiness like the moon, where they come from. (10)
O Som who desires the gods very much in the yagnas! We shower you from the slow stream for the Bhargavavanshi sages. 
Indra, who is a man of famous karma, had stopped the Vrithra Asura. Indra, who stopped the blows of enemies in the war, had killed the Mayavians in particular. Indra, who longed for enmity, killed the enemy hidden in the forest and without a torso and revealed the cows hidden in the nights. 
Just as the baj bird goes to its habitat, so the bright somas go to the golden place built by the yajnako. The stotas praise the beloved Som in the yajna. The worthy mons of yajna reach the gods as quickly as a horse. 
Vayu Dev ploughed the horse given by Yama in the chariot. Indra Dev sat on this horse first of all. Gandharva took control of it. (13)
O friend and Varun Dev! You are Brahmin, immortal and truthful. Get food, strength and wealth in war. You drink sweet juice in this yajna. Be satisfied and satisfied. Please go through the paths of God. (11)
I give it to the Brahmins who ask, then they should answer by saying this, then those Brahmins say that this karma should be done by the host with children etc. (1)
Jupiter destroys the east and sleeps in the west direction. They do not renounce parts of the ocean and get usha, sun and satya gau while breaking in the sky. (5)
We have done transmission in water today. We have cleaned ourselves today with the contact of water. O God of Fire! We have come to you pure with water. You swell for us with supremacy, children and wealth. (22)
O agni! You anoint the path of the gods with ghee and please them with love. You water all seven directions. You save yourself for the host. (2)
We defeat the basic ignorance of disease and all evils as well as poverty with the conch received in the form of a gem. May the destroyer of all nuisances and the conch produced by gold protect us from sin. (3)
O very fast-paced maruto! The host of the host in whose yagyashala you come from the sky and drink somapan, the swami of that house becomes the best among those who protect their dependents. (2)
Mon fills the cow's trunks with milk. Shobhan falls down as the intellected Mon streams. Just as an object is covered with a washed cloth, similarly, the cows cover the som placed in a vessel called Chamu with their white milk. 
O Agni and Vishnu! The radiance of both of you is great and pleasing to all. Both of you, eat the forms of Charu, Purodash etc. of Ghrit. While being mutually pleased, both of you should grow in the houses of all the hosts with grace and eat ghee with your tongues. (2)
The sage named Atharva was the first to know the path of the cows stolen by the panai by performing the yajna related to Indra. After this, the yajnarakshak and the bright Sun-roopi Indra appeared and Atharva received the songs. The poet's son Ushana, who helped and who was born to drive away the asuras, such a mortal Indra, is worshipped by us through Havi. 
The Guru said to his disciple thus- 'O Devdatta! If you consume this odan from the stomach from which the previous ritualists had consumed this odan, that is, from the temporal abdomen, then the diarrhea disease that gives the stomach will destroy you. As an answer to this, the disciple should say to his guru that I have not consumed that odan facing, nor from the front, nor have I done it with a soul- oriented. I have consumed this odan from the true abdomen. I have taken it where it should have gone. This odan is full of all the joints and the whole body with all the parts, by this method, the person who knows how to consume this odan, the same one with all the organs with all the joints and the whole body, he is situated in the best worlds like heaven etc. (11)
Hey, Lord! We ask for wealth from the same Mon who goes to The Taksha, Vayu and Usha, who call the gods for your welfare, who approach Indra with Jupiter and Shobhan Medha and please Indra. 
We praise the great, the protector of the yagna and the brave born Aditi, friend, Varuna, Aryama and Bhaga. I praise the non-violent kamo, the rich and the sanctifying gods. 
 O Mon! Your nourishing juices have been born in heaven. From the same heaven, you deliver important happiness and abundant food to the earth. 
Hey friend and Varun! I merely propose your yajna, i can't use it. That's why I get your speed. O work years! When you are wise, they perform havan for you, at that time they become partakers of happiness. 
 O sun! You are about to publish. Seven ray horses carry your chariot. These rays are purifying. 
On the way, Savita is abandoned by the early rays. At that time, they stop savita's ever-moving traveler and control the will of the people who travel against the enemies. The night comes when Savita's work is over. 
While being purified, Som had created a light called Vaishvanar like a thunderbolt so that heaven could expand. 
Agni Dev is always awake in the yajnashala, the riches wish him. Only the eternally awake agni god receives hymns. Someras say to the awakening agni god, "I am yours. O agni! I'll be with you in your own place." 
The Supreme Lord said: Behold, O Parth, my hundreds and thousands of wonderful forms of various shapes, sizes, and colors.
These lingering mons drip, killing the demons and illuminating their lamps as before. 
Indra's horses are red and black in colour, with long components, ornamented and inhabited the sky. They pull the yoke of the chariot installed from the incoming kamvarshi Indra to give money to the sage Rizashwa. The human army knows these inspiring horses. 
These fall down as a stream of water, giving food containing cows towards the houses of the waning and bright Som hostesses. 
When Indra becomes happy with us, our cows will become more milk-giving and powerful. We will be happy to get food from those cows. 
We ask for money from the very guard, the one who is a coward, the lord of great wealth and a friend Pusha. 
O teacher! Give the quick roasted barley and purodash for indra, the bravest of men. O enemy-defeating Indra! May one of the praises made every day by targeting you, make you excited for sompan. 
O Maruto! This group of hymns of the diet-worthy Mandarya poet is for you. This praise is received by you by wishing to affirm the body of eulogy. Let us also get food, strength and long life through it. 
Indeed, all those who are devoted to me are indeed noble. But those in knowledge, who are of steadfast mind, whose intellect is merged in me, and who have made me alone as their supreme goal, I consider as my very self.
O agni! All gods are in you, so let us receive all the best wealth from you in the yagnas. 
At the time when the sacrificial horse passes through the path of heaven, a group of horses with thick thighs, thin waists and in a commensurate horse walk with the divine horse as the stars row in this sky. 
Keep away from us the defects caused by the dead sins that arise every year, praised by shobhan mantras, the inhabitants of the wide sky, with their associations, beneficial to all through rain, those who afflict enemies, are happy and satisfy everyone. (3)
O furious Indra! Listen to My praise in the midst of the spartan Angiragotrian sages and the sages who praise you. 
The radiant som scurts while generating words and receives praises while covering the water. Som's folk takes the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair. Soma goes to the place of the gods by being purified. 
O agni of money and of truth! You would have and wish for the praises made by the grandson and be meritorious. Let us worship the glorious and admirable agni gods with the word Swaha from what we give to the gods. 
Who knows what food Indra wears when Someras is squeezed? Pleased with the food of Havi, Indra destroys the cities of enemies with his power. (11)
The greatest men who roamed on the golden path such as Ashwini Kumar, Goddess Saraswati and Indra Dev came to us in the yagna of human beings. Accept the will. Protect us in every way. (74)
Som is the best of the havis and revered. Your stream is excellent, sweet and leading. Your stream flows into the water. 
O king! You be superior and your opponents be the lowest. Those opponents have a sense of hostility towards you. You become the chief and friend of Indra and conquer all. Take away the enjoyment of those who behave like your enemies. (6)
Before sunrise and before the Usha period, devotees perform havan of the name through the name of the people, that is, they describe the importance of it through the name of God. In this way, the unborn soul i.e. the devotee who attains a coincidence with God, attains Swarajya i.e. gets rid of the bondage of birth. No element is superior to that God. (31)
O Goddess Saraswati! The stota who praises you like Indra in the battle for wealth, protect him. 
O Indra! You ride on your chariot and go to many places like a happy deer. When someras is squeezed, no one can stop you from coming to the yagna at that time. You move around as great with your own strength. When our Someras is ready, you come to our yajna. (12)
O Indra! I wish you dearness and charity. Many horses come to you for your ride. To your scholar we give great and excellent greetings. Oh, it's a maghwan! Consider yourself as our protector. 
O Adityao! Give us refuge, worthy of refuge, consumeable by all, disease-free, full of three qualities and home-friendly happiness. Your protection is foolproof and beautiful. 
That Supreme Principle first created the universe. You and we don't know him. He is in everyone and different from everything. Like a fog-covered cloud, people suffer from various vain notions (misconceptions) about that supreme principle. Can't praise him. (31)
The thing I pray to get through the voice of Saraswati born of the mind, it should be received by the reverence of the powerful Somdev. (5)
O Som who gives food from all around, who receives heaven, and who sees all men! You enter. Hey Indu! You take the means of protection with you and protect us from the back and forth. 
 O Mon! You are white and squeezed by hosts. You are mixed in the best water. Cows mix their milk in somers. Those cows with their milk make it more flavorful. 
O agni! You protect us from enemies, weapons and contaminated food. Please remove those toxic elements of food. Your native place is pleasant. Swaha for you. Swaha to those who live under your protection, Goddess and Saraswati, the sister of Yash. (20)
When the fund form of the gods wants to destroy the place, moving in many ways, then it reveals different forms. (29)
 O Mon! You have been sanctified by all the psalms. You are especially the one who gets food, wealth and gives pleasure to the gods. You are specially prepared for them. 
O father! You should be satisfied with our deed called Pitrayag and go to your place when we call you again, then come. We have given you a yajna with honey and ghee, you accept this yajna and establish auspicious opulence and sons, grandsons, animals etc. in our house. (14)
O Gem's upadankaran ashwata! Just as you were born by penetrating the coat of the khadir tree, so destroy all my enemies. (3)
O hermit! I will defeat my son-in-law by your grace. Thus you are also going to be defeated. Let us and you both become powerful and make Saut powerless. 
The gem that Jupiter had tied in the hands of the devas, which destroyed the asuras, the same gem has come to me with juice and tej. (22)
Indra went to the name and said, "O name of praise! I'm here. Look at me standing here. I defeat all beings of the world by My glory. The scholars who preach the yajna magnify me with praises. I am afraid of all the people in the habit of piercing." 
We are also your stokes and tell the truth. We are praising you. You must forsake the most rich who do not perform yajna. O praiseworthy and commendable Aschinikumaro! You drink somers near the gods. 
Indra Dev sits on kush's seat. Bahindev sets the age for them and increases them. We praise them with a cup of verses. We hand over our success to them. We end our age to them. May those rich people give us money. Hosts perform yajna for them. (44)
Oh, horse! When you arrived you were saying great words from the nose. You were flogged for not walking. Just as by such a such the human being is poured into the ann, so i sacrifice all those sufferings by the mantra 
On the day of squeezing somras in the yagna, ten fingers like all the sisters receive the soma well. 
Those who got divinity from karma performed yagna through Charu, Purodash etc. with the mind of God for the gods like Indra etc. who did not die. May we hosts be happy in that vast heaven and may the fruit of this yajna remain as long as there is sunlight. (3)
There are three gates leading to the hell of self-destruction for the soul—lust, anger, and greed. Therefore, all should abandon these three.
O Indra! You are the filler of heaven by the human beings, the one who desires the earth, the fillers of the rivers by rain, and the fuller of the real world. This is the desireful and rain-filled Indra! The only sweet somras has been prepared for you. 
Let us conquer cows with bows. With the bow, we always won the war and the way. The bow is going to do bad to the enemy. With the bow, we won all the rivers. (39)
The disciple asked, "O Master! I ask the glory of this odan of yours, which is excessive. (22)
O Arjun, noblest amongst men, that person who is not affected by happiness and distress, and remains steady in both, becomes eligible for liberation.
There is nothing higher than myself, O Arjun. Everything rests in me, as beads strung on a thread.
The vasativariroopi songs, drunk by the somrupi calf, wish som to be a sarwan. 
O rays born in the sky, light and constellations! Those of you who are combined with Vishwavasu Gandharva i.e. moon, O divine rays! I salute you. (4)
O God of Indra! You come and be pleased with the visible wealth. Fill your pond-like huge stomach with somras while you are drunk with maruts. 
All the poets have adorned Indra in all respects while sitting in the chariot. Indra illuminated with his aura is located covered with radiance. The deeds of the karyavashi and pranavan indra are strange, because they have taken various forms and have taken shelter in the waters. 
O mighty and dieless agni! Bring to us the wealth you consider to be the best. O great agni! Bring money to the delight of all the gods. 
 O Indra! You are called to assist in wars. You are adorned with our praise, prayers. You are the destroyer of Vritrasura. The image of your bow is indestructible. Grace the prayers of the evenings of all three of you times. 
O one-sided! I perform your yajna for the time of spring etc., seasonal day and night, twelve months, dhata vidhata devas of Samvatsar and swami of all grazing beings. (10)
While being squeezed, som crosses the dashapavitra and drips to go to dronakalash. 
All the things that have been brought and won by tearing the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all heroes are ours. We send the son of such a tribe and such a woman away from this world. He could never get rid of the loops created by the sages. I wrap his glory, verch, life and age and make him fall face down. (13)
Just as the charioteer builds the chariot for the master, in the same way, I offer havi and praises to Indra, who is worthy of praise and is presented by all the hosts, in the form of somersa etc. I am doing these praises to get food. (4)
The yajna of the Ritvijas, the mandal of the sun god born before all, who is not visible and first of all, definitely inspires everyone. This sun appears in the east direction with thousands of rays in such a way that they get the symptoms of food quickly. (6)
When the Maruts praised the pleased Indra by drinking the squeezed somras, Indra picked up the thunderbolt, destroyed the enemy and left the huge water deposit stopped by the vritra to flow. 
This light given by Anne Dev came. With glory and fame came glory, youth and strength. May agni give me thirty-three kinds of actions, that is, heroic power. (1)
They never deviate from duty in the Battle of Indra and do not give rise to false things. Indra, with the famous name, has killed the demons named Chumuri, Pipru, Shambar, Shushna and Dhuni. They work quickly to demolish their cities and kill those struts. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come as fast as the hawk toward the squeezed somras of the host. Just as the buffalo comes towards the water, so you come to the mon. You come together with Usha and Surya in all the three sawans. 
 O Indra! The host wants to get a lot of money from you. They want to satisfy you with somers found in cow's milk. Just like a deer drinks water in a pond, you should drink someras in this yagna. 
O Shur Indra! We praise you by filling som in a spoon like a cow without milk. You are the master of movable beings and fixed things and the seer of all. 
Those gods who give wealth, foolish and intelligent always protect the world through their glory and do their work. 
Fire was held in space by the great maruts and the humans praised him as the archnaypal lord. The wind brought the vaishvanar from the distant sunstorial as the messengers of the gods. 
O Mon! You have a reputation in a smoke (static) manner. You ruminate in the minds of human beings. You are the vagina of Indra Dev. Indra Dev also accepts you. You enter the upayam (vessel). You are the most wanted god. You live in water, ghee and vyom (sky). We accept you for Indra. You are Indra Dev's vagina and optimum. Please come to the vessel. You live in earth, space and paradise. You are worthy of gods. You accept Som for Indra Dev. You are indra dev's vagina and you are optimal. (2)
King Varuna has said that the wealth of a Brahmin is the poison created by the gods. No one survives in the nation by killing a Brahmin's cow. (10)
O water year mon! You drink for the sake of the gods. Hey Mon! Enter indra's beloved character. Save us from them before the monsters make us sad. Just as the one who knows the way tells the way to the one who asks the way, so should Soma protect us by telling us the yajna path. 
O very young, related to the ritvijas and the agni that pervades! Give us the money sought by the most praiseworthy, brilliant and many supplicants. 
O earth! You are going to give energy and money. O earth! Please save us from audacity. O earth! You are worthy of yajna. Please be oriented towards you by a agni called Nabh. Provide angiras agni age. Please come here. Prithvi is located in the second and third position. We perform yajna on earth. We set you on earth for the gods. (9)
O Indra! You yourself walk near Taurus. You don't go to another place for Somers. Indra is the best. 
The sun wanders alone. The moon is generated again and again. Fire is a cold medicine. The land is the largest area of seed sowing. (10)
O Indra! You have found the happy, the workman, the satiating, the superior, the powerful, the destroyer of enemy armies, and the indestructible Someras. 
O hosts! You beautifully invoke Indra, who does the famous human-benevolent deeds for our welfare, the master of the desired wealth, and who gives quickly collectable food to a saint like me. 
O aschinikumaro with wealth in the form of yajna! We are a wide and harmless home of the rich in every way. 
The one who is the knower of these ekkerts i.e. Brahman is not called the eighth, ninth. (4)
Her usha is like a woman, mantra fan, science clothes, day turban, night hair, kiran kundal and stars gem. (13)
The Supreme Lord said: Both you and I have had many births, O Arjun. You have forgotten them, while I remember them all, O Parantapa.
Hey Mon! The juices that are made separately are made as thick, pervasive and fast as a horse. They go to the sweet and more juiced Som Vanjadhari Indra in the same way that the milch cow goes to the calf. 
Like the ancient sages who created great praises, when we praise, water is poured out of the clouds. The sky completes its work so the water rains. The Angiragotrian sages who perform yajnakarma get very tired. 
Just as Prajapati strengthens the Jyotimandal in space, so should I wear the fruits of glory, fame and sacrifice in the host. (3)
O karyati Indra! We call you to drink the squeezed mon. You drink narcotics and anomorphic mon. 
 O Mon! You are charming and stunning. You go and sit in dronakalash while being refined. 
 Someras is sweet. It is prepared for the gods. Just as milch cows go to their calves, someras goes to the urn. In the Yajna Mandap, the cows wear someras in the milk dripping from their breasts for Indra. 
May the brightly-lit Bhaga, Savita, the lord of wealth, Taksha, Vrithrahanta Indra, who conquers the wealth, come and protect us in our yagna. 
O Indra! Make the army of our enemies void of duty knowledge. With the help of agni and air, destroy the enemy army by forcing them to flee from the war at their own speed. (5)
The sunkirane, which is joined together, with a hundred streams and supporting the mon, receives the green som. The fingers massage the mon covered with rays and the som located at the bright spot of the dulok. 
We invite Mitra Dev, Bhag Dev, Aditi Dev, Daksha Dev, Aryama Dev, Varun Dev, Ashwini Dev and Saraswati Devi. We call upon them. They are fortunate. May they be kind to the welfare of us hosts. (16)
May the sages who compose eighteen richas get this sacrifice well. (15)
These are the seven rays of the sun, in which my navel is associated. The sage of Aptya i.e. I know this and praise the suryakirans for coming out of the well. O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
O Balwan Somdev! Fight the enemies who hijack our wealth. Let no one destroy you. You are the master of the force of both sides of the war. Destroy our nuisances in war. 
We invoke Indra on behalf of all beings of the world. Those Indras should be ours. (1)
It is being said to the man cut by the poisonous animal - O man cut by the serpent! I remove the venom of the snake from the part in which your poisonous snake has bitten or the part of yours which the snake etc. has drunk, and I also make the poison of the mosquito bite with these three organs ineffective. (3)
 O agni! You are as bright as Suman 
People milk the drinkable, ancient and admirable mon from heaven facing the great and deep space. The stotas praise the som created by targeting Indra. 
And that charity, which is given at the wrong place and wrong time to unworthy persons, without showing respect, or with contempt, is held to be of the nature of nescience.
O aschinikumaro! You have seen many yagnakarmas of the sages by listening to the praises. You come into my host's house. Please be kind to us concerning you food. 
Gods, human beings, etc. produced by Prajapati all wear pranas in their bodies. All of them are protected by the Acharya in Brahmachari, that is, the Vedas taught. (22)
As soon as Agni enters the sacrificial ground, his praises and yajna karma begin. All the hosts perform yajna aiming at Agni, the swami of food. O Agni! The host who gives you havya or receives the instruction of your yajna, knowing his karma, give him money. 
May the merciful heroes protect our armies in the inder wars that are masters of many yagnas, those who are not attacked by others who defeat the enemy army that is not distracted by others, and enter the clouds with power. 
The man who sacrifices this agni through the human beings receives wealth with a more athletic and heroic child. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come with the help of three vandhuras and a chariot with three corners to drink the sweet somras. 
Just as rambling cows go towards calves, so does Som go towards the vessel. Ritvij holds soma in his hands. 
They are present only when the adhwaryu tries to cause fire. These are found only after they are generated from the items that are available. By achieving growth, they accept the deeds done by the tired host for the pleasure of him. 
O Indra! You are as terrible as a terrible foot and a mountainous animal. You have come from distant paradise. You kill the enemies by mounting on a dynamic and sharp van and drive away the opponents. 
The squeezed som goes to Indra, Vayu, Varuna, Marudgana and Vishnu. 
 O Mon! You should choose the holy streams of ghrit desired by the gods. You rain heavily for us. 
Salutations to this cross of the sea. Salutations to the one across the sea. Salutations to the crossman. Salutations to the pilgrims. Salutations for located on the coast. Salutations for located in the grass. Bow to Fen at sea. (42)
O Ritvijo! Bring the famous, welfare and medicinal form waters, which relieve diseases like tuberculosis, here for the increase of my happiness. (5)
O Indra! Secured by you, we will defeat our enemies who hate us by wearing the most firm thunderbolt. 
O Satyarup Ashwinikumaro! Listen to the praises of the Son of Kanva in the same way that we bring you today with the help of praise sentences and mantras. 
O greenish- varna, seeker of force and intoxicating mon! You tap for the maruts, the air and other gods to drink. 
 We install the remaining Someras, which was carved out of stone, in Dronakalash to offer on the immersion of Param Veer Indra. 
O yajna worthy Adityas! Let us drive away the maya that you have created for the demons and the loops that you have created for the enemies, as an equestrian, in a chariot like an equestrian. May we be harmless by our enemies and achieve great happiness. 
O agni! This is your home, shine in it. You heat it with your heat. You are omniscient. You be a benefactor. (16)
If there is Bhima Vasha in the house of the donor, then on requesting that vasha, say, "O Brahmins! This is havi for you. (48)
O Indra! You hit the vrikra by huge bows. You killed the elusive tumor and the antelope. You took the cows out of the mountains. 
O himself mighty Indra! You destroyed the circle that grew with maya by the same movement in the mind and a thunderbolt with many edges. O you who are glorious and great Indra! You have broken the unprovoked, determined and unshakable enemy cities by the same mighty thunderbolt. 
This usha removes the darkness when the fire ignites in the morning and spreads the light as the rising sun. Savita Dev gives money in the form of human beings and animals for our transiting behavior. 
O subpunch! Come here and meet us at the gaushala. O Indra! The semen of this Taurus is your semen. (23)
Before this present creation, work was well ingrained in God's mind. The same work became a seed in the heart that merged into Maya. This job! You became the same cause by the Great God created to create the whole world. This job! You give the host an abundance of money. (1)
Salutations to Rudra Dev with blue neck. Salutations to Rudra Dev with thousands of eyes. Salutations to Rudra Dev, who showered. Salutations to Satyavan Rudra Dev. (8)
May the shining herb named Prishniparni give us happiness and give sorrow to the sin god Nirtiti, who causes disease. I have eaten the very powerful, papanashini and disease-defeating herb Prishniparni. (1)
O sun praised and moved by the most aged sages! The hosts serve you by those praises that have reverence for you, those praises containing those who make you famous. They really know what they want. Those who serve you of their own will get enough fruit. 
Agni Dev should kill all those enemies who want to come and kill us with the enemy army, Agni Dev should consume him. (29)
Therefore, giving up attachment, perform actions as a matter of duty, for by working without being attached to the fruits, one attains the Supreme.
The Supreme Being is secretly present in all, the Protector of all, who puts evil on all. All beings become absorbed in it in the holocaust. Everyone is full of books. He is the light among the people. (8)
He has covered the sky with his rays. They are covered with rays by the great Indra. (9)
The abducted cow of a Brahmin does not remain in its control. (2)
Whoever knows about these suns, tell us where their feet are located in the sky. Cows milk in the sun's circle and those cows drink water through the rays of these suns. (5)
O Lord Indra! Your strengths are such that you immediately destroyed the ninety-nine cities of Shambar. He had entered the hundredth city for his residence and had killed Vrithra and Namuchi. 
This huge praise of ours will enhance the great, the glorious and powerful Indra and Vishnu. O Indra and Vishnu! We have praised you in the yajna. In war you increase our grain. 
Silver navel Kaberak exploited it and milked Tirodha from it. (11)
I establish my physical disease called Harimana on the birds called Parrot and Maina. I set my Hariman's disease on turmeric. 
O beautiful indra! You should drink the joyful Somersa in the somayagas and get happiness. (9)
O Indra! We wish you with the form of Soma. O Indra, who dwells to all! Be happy to give us the fruits you want. (7)
O Vajradhari Indra! You killed an asura named Bal with your thunderbolt. You turned him away with your violent means and got the cows. (11)
 O Indra! For you, Someras is kept in utensils called 'Chamas' and 'Planet'. You must accept it. You are very capable. 
O agni without hindrance! You are the ones who raise the sacrificial host and protect against the distant and near enemy. O son of strength, agni! You have to go on a whole and give wealth and house to the riches in human beings. 
O the ever-growing bright and revered Indra and the God of agni, like men! We praise you for getting the horse. 
O Agni! The raksash obstacles are not able to destroy the yajnas related to you, because you give happiness in the form of fruits to the hosts engaged in those deeds. If your karma is hampered by raksash, then you take your fellow leader Marudgan and drive them away. 
O happy, young man and a radiant agni! The host whose food you eat well-offered and without violence is sure to be happy. We will be related to the host who serves the agni, whose yajna is increased, etc., we will be related to it. 
Anger leads to clouding of judgment, which results in bewilderment of the memory. When the memory is bewildered, the intellect gets destroyed; and when the intellect is destroyed, one is ruined.
O agni! Usha and Nisha, who make food, go near you. You also go near them through the wind-like path, because through Ritviji havi, you water the ancient agni. Usha and Nisha, who are mixed together like gambling, should stay in our yagyashala again and again 
 O Mon! You give us good children, songs and opulence. You are beautifully adorned on earth. 
O Brahmanaspati! You light up those who consume Som. Just as you glorified Ushiz's son, So please make us glorious too. (28)
This abode of Yama is said to be built by the devas. This flute is played for yama's delight and it is beautified with praises. 
The devas who appoint the hosts to the yagnakarmo have appointed my sage Kavsh to Kurushravana. I have borne Pusha by the way. All the gods protected me, and there was a hue and cry all around that the hard-to-do sage had come. 
Air and agni are divine. Humans are prominent among the hotas. He is a beautiful speech, an inspiration of yajna and a creator of yajna. They grace the air and order the service of the callous agni. Therefore, the wind and agni gods who do good to the yajna should also do me a favor. (7)
O servants! You must put forward Indra, the one who is not a jerk, who drives away the enemies, who is not influenced by anyone, the quick, the enemy, and the water-enhancing Indra, to protect you. 
Don't think of making you your diet. Wander away from the agni that devours you all in the land. Protect you from the armament of earth, sky, sun, moon and space god. (12)
 O Indra! You are far away from us. Still, please come to our yajna. Please pay attention to the prayers made from the feelings of our mind. Even the knowledge of scholars cannot take you away from us. That's our request to you. 
Oh, very intoxicating Mon! You mix with delicious cow's milk, ghee, etc. to drink indra.. 
O Indra! In the yajna in which you desire the sage Kutsa and take away your ever-moving, simple-moving and air-moving horses, let the sun take the wheel of his chariot to that yagna and face the enemies of Indra who are fighting the thunderbolt in your hand 
O Jupiter! You and Indra are happy in this yajna and give money to the hosts and drink someras. May Soma, capable of pervading the entire body, enter your body. Give us wealth with sons and grandsons. 
O Indra! Whether we sit in a bull-connected chariot or walk without it, may your unprovoked yellow horses do good in our journey. 
O air! Come to drink somras with the appointees of the thousands of chariots that you have. 
This is the hymn! Praise the agni that is knowing and brings about the famous riches that produce the agni and the sacrificial agni, who desire war through karma and the flames of the agni which can be overcome with the same difficulty as the ocean waves flowing down. 
O Indra, the destroyer of many enemies! In a yajna with various hymns, let us make you strong by the praises of the psalms. 
One who knows Aditya as Kshatra and Dyulok as Indra gets the senses. (11)
In this morning, I worship those Ashchinikumaras and praise them and ask for wealth from both of them through hymns. 
I am as present as air, producing all ghosts as reason. I am separated from this sky and this earth, by my glory. (8)
O leader Aschinikumaro! In the psalms of the Psalms, My Psalm will be the most able messenger to carry you, and call you and give you joy. 
 O Mon! Your juice is extracted well. You have been prepared for Indra. Don't let disease and monsters burst near you. Sinful people who behave both falsely and truthfully should not be blessed by you. You give us money in this yajna. 
O the sun god who always protects! You are the master of the best wealth, so I ask you for consumable wealth. 
Monsters who eat raw meat, who eat human meat and who have long hairs. They take the form of Maya and enter the womb and eat it. We drive those three types of demons away from near the womb. (23)
It is a cow and the sun is its great. That cow of dyau should provide the strong food i want for me due to the calf of the sun. May He give me a hundred years of age, subjects, confirmation and wealth. This is the best sacrifice. (6)
The king of Dansheel prayed to me, and I accepted him a hundred gold coins, a hundred horses and a hundred oxen. With this donation, the king attained permanent success in paradise. 
O Jupiter! You win. O hosts! You sing mantras for Jupiter Dev. Chant so that you and Jupiter can get more strength. O Indra Dev! You conquer, O host! You sing mantras for Indra Dev. Chant so that Indra Dev gets more strength. (11)
Which heroic person goes into the struggle with Indra and who receives indra's grace? Don't know when Indra's strange wealth will be distributed? When will Indra tend to increase and protect the host while praising him? 
O mighty and victorious Indra! Whether you are in a distant place, whether you are in a nearby place, whether you are in the sea, come from all places and be happy to drink somras. 
When the somras squeeze with the help of the adhwaryu stones, who wash their hands with the water containing mantras, the complements of the yajnakarma and the adhavaryu stones who see all the things, the means of the best yajna and the somayukta garhapatya, etc., praise the Ashwinikumaras who live together every day. 
The mighty Indra does not despise anyone and cannot be defeated by anyone. Indra hears and sees the world. 
O Indra! Be pleased with the somras given for the purpose of great wealth and do not possess your hymns to the blasphemer. 
O Indra! Give us all the strength and wealth that is there in human beings, or the grain that is in the five varnas, with great powers. 
O agni! Give us the grain of the divine and the space world from all sides. You also provide us with forgetful funds. 
O agni! Know the praises we have given, accept them, and be friendly to us to pour out water. We do not destroy the yagnakarma by force and do not do any acts against the Vedas. We praise the glorious and lustrous agni. 
O agni! You accept my praise mantras, grow by this beautiful hymn and wish for our suktas. 
Rain occurs due to the consumption of food used in yajna. Blessings are obtained from vagsukta. Patience leads to love in the husband-wife relationship. The desired yajna leads to a state of status. (29)
Hey Mon! Drop bright and powerful streams to give us food. 
O Indra! May this excellent hymn be heartwarming and soothing for you. After that you drink the squeezed mon. 
 O agni! You convey to Indra in the same way as his horses take him to the designated place. You do our welfare just as yajnas do our welfare. You are a heart seeker. We worship you with worship and prayers. 
O God of agni! The sin we have committed by being subjugated by the senses, O Aditi son Devo! You save us from that sin through the truth of yajna. (1)
 O Indra! O agni! We choose you to fulfill your wishes. We worship you with Vedic mantras and singing. 
 O sun! You rise in front of the deserts while looking at them. You rise when you look at humans. You appear in front of everyone. 
Two sage wives named Surya should get this sacrifice well. (24)
Indra, who defeated the enemies, illuminated his speed and pierced the mountains with power by wielding a thunderbolt. Indra, pleased with The Sompan, killed the demon Vritra by vajra. After the killing of Vrithra, the water started flowing at a fast pace. 
The seven great Sages, the four great Saints before them, and the fourteen Manus, are all born from my mind. From them, all the people in the world have descended.
The devas attained the kooth vegetation through the navel of heaven with gold bonds, which is the man of nectar. (2)
O Indra! People who praise variously call you for protection in wars. You along with the meritorious angiras had destroyed the panajis in particular. Only the person you protect receives food. 
I call indra, with the yajnashali, who ruled over all by my power and the maruts, to pierce the enemies. 
O mighty Indra! Man cannot find your friendship. No one can find your powers either. 
This is called the ultimate principle. (1)
O agni that defeats the enemies! You are worthy of praise in the yajnas and the leader of the yajnas. 
 O Mon! You are the one who is intoxicating, happy and happy. To offer to the gods, we mix you in cow's milk. 
O Indra! Walk before us by the ashes of eighty, ninety and hundred hari. In the characters called Shunhotra, som is kept for your enjoyment. 
O great friend of knowledge and Varuna! You are the possessor of all the world. Oh, lord! You make our deeds successful by your grace. 
 Som is the son of venerable water. They are the ones who illuminate and perfect the yajna. The juice of these lives in all the hives. They live in both heaven and earth. 
The river is the urine of this cow, the swami of the year is the udder of this and the thunder of this. (14)
Aschinikumaro's three-wheeled honey-bearer, with moving horses, acclaimed, three-bonded, rich and with all the good fortunes, may our two-legged sonadi and four-legged animals beg happiness. 
O chariot owners, the best and the most victorious Indra! You conquer the hidden wealth of the enemies by our enemy's ruling chariot. 
O Indra! With your help, let us conquer our opponent gamblers. You secure the fraction of each messenger we desire to win in sports. In addition to this, you get us a lot of money. O rich Indra! You eliminate the power to conquer my anti-jurors. (4)
O enemy! I throw the dust of your feet with your cut feet in the burning agni. Let agni enter your body and spread to all your organs. May your speech and soul also end. (8)
The man who knows this is the beloved abode of Prajapati, Parameshti, Father and Pitamah. (26)
O Sun God! You are the master of wealth. If you protect, let us go into the advancement of wealth. 
Ashwinikumars get sawan in the morning. Indra Dev and the mantras related to him lead to the attainment of Madhyandin Sawan. Saraswati Devi is related to the worlds. Through them, the third sawan is attained. (26)
O Asuro! Those who stabilized the visible worlds, put the asuras in caves, conquered the direct enemies and those who take away the enemy's wealth are Indra. (4)
Hey Mon! Rain on the earth from dulok, produce food on the earth, and give us strength in war. 
We have called Dhanaswami and Dansheel Indra along with the Maruts. They soon give food to protect us. Those who gave all the wealth to the Indra Stotas, they would give the best wealth to human beings. 
The protector of this fund should get the fruit of the eating of this ripe odan in heaven after sixty years. O proud God of glory! While making this host attain heaven, keep his ancestors, sons, etc. close to him. (34)
The hymns are made by the som ritwijs who listen to the sentences, being bright, radiant and pure. 
O Indra! I encourage you to drink this Som and fill your stomach. After drinking this Som, rama will remain in your heart. (8)
I praise the agni under whose rule the whole world is present, planets, constellations, etc. are illuminated in space, all the beings born and born under whose rule, I praise that agni and perform havana again and again with the desire for fruit. May such a god of agni rescue me from sin. (7)
In ancient times, Aditi moved to Devaloka with seven sons. Only the sun stabilized in the sky for the birth and death of the subjects. 
O jealous man! Just as a blacksmith breathes out of the bhastra i.e. bellows, I remove jealousy from your heart. (3)
Lakshmi, the sin of sin, that is, poverty! Go away from this land. Do not appear in this land and go far away from this land. I bind you with my enemy with iron thorns. (1)
O hosts! You take this yajna and sacrifice to heaven. The hosts offer sacrifices for agni. The hosts are offering sacrifices while reciting mantras for their happiness and peace. (11)
The Vengotriya sages who speak sweet words squeeze different somras in a place called The Havandhaan of yajna and water-pouring, rising in water and watering the rasarup som in the ocean-like giant dronakalash with waves of water. They squeeze the sweet-juiced mon into the dashapavitra. 
Put the yamadoots who see each other to sleep well. They should always be unconscious, never wake up. O infinite rich Indra! Make us rich with beautiful and countless cows and horses. 
O God! You are our father. You awaken us like a father. Our salutations to you. Don't indulge in any kind of violence. Don't indulge in any kind of violence. You have a son for us. You protect us. You have children for us. You protect us. We praise you with favored words. We worship you again and again with spinach. (20)
Saraswati Devi, along with both Ashwinikumars, created a special beautiful and visible body with the mind, juice (blood) chewed, patience, the destroyer of disorders, it was produced in the body. (83)
May Soma protect me for the stability of his power prana, for the stability of his own life, for the growth of age, for the brightness of the body, for the skill and for the shobhan property. May This sacrifice be well received by Som. (8)
O Pawman Mon! Give us many charities, with horses, with thousands of donations, including cattle and gold-rich wealth. You give us food containing animals. You come to hear our hymn. 
O god! Vishwakarma, please install you on the surface of the earth. You hold the first space. You expand the space. Don't do violence against space. Wear space to protect the life, apana, vyana, udan and character's reputation of all of you. (12)
O Varuna! Relax your loop in the upper part of our body and also relax your loop in the middle part of our body. After this, O Aditi son Varun! Get rid of all sins and join your karma to be sinless. (3)
The Kshatriya who kidnaps this type of cow of the Brahmin and makes the Brahmin unhappy, his Lakshmi, Shakti and beloved speech are lost. (6)
Yami- What is the brother whose presence, his sister should be inferior to her desired desire? What kind of sister is she, in front of whom her brother's work is angry. That is why you behave according to my will. (12)
O dead person! You go to this wide, pervasive and pleasing mother earth. O the dead who give the gift of yajna! May this earth with tender trunks like a group of young woman and sheep's hair protect your bones. 
The same agni, he is the sun and he is the great Yama. (5)
Varuna, who makes his rays white in the day and black at night, have created the halo, space and the earth for the purposes of his deeds. Just as the Sun holds the Dulok, varuna holds the dyava-prithvivi through space. Varun kills all the enemies. 
O Ashwinikumaro! From the leather vessel full of somras that is placed in the middle part of your chariot, you drink the som. 
The sages, sons of Angira, have taken life by attaining indra's friendship well through yajnakarma. The sons of Sudhanva and the sages who perform the holy deeds have attained the nectar position in order to attain divinity and by virtue of adornment deeds. 
 O Mon! You are holy, shining like the sun. You are fantastic and yogurt mixed. You are pole 
Listen to our praises of saraswati served by our most of our seven sisters and old sages like Priya, Ganga etc. 
O Indra, who drinks somerus! Our desired substances are collected with you. You have got all the good fortune in you. Your graceful donations are devoid of deviousness. 
O Savita Dev! Give us sons, grandsons and wealth today and destroy the poverty that increases misery. 
 O Indra! O agni! You are furious and obstructionist. We invoke both of you gods in the yajna. Please both of you Gods to make us happy. 
In this yajna, the words stones used by the ritvijas to code somlata are used. With the help of these stones, indra was worshipped by the attrivanshi sages who performed navgiv and dashgiv yajna by the unscrupulous som. Sarma came to the yagna and got the cows and the hymns of the Angiragotrian sages were successful. 
O Indra! When you wore your fourth name 'Yajnayya', we wished for the yajna, and you are our guardian and protector. 
The earth, which is dominated by all beings, is calm-minded and sublime-minded than everyone's body. Just as the mind of the dead man is devoid of jealousy, in the same way, the mind of a man with jealousy related to the woman should also be calmed. (2)
The fierce and powerful deserts combine the powerful service with the earth-sky with the beautiful earth and the sky. Rudra's wife, Madhyama Vaku, lives with her radiance in the maruts. There is no obstacle to the powerful maruts. 
O herb named Prishniparni! Let the sin particles that destroy lives and cause diseases like leprosy enter the cave of the mountain. Just as agni burns the animals living in the forest, so you burn the sins that have entered the cave of the mountain. (4)
O patient man! Come back and have a new life again. Through this karma, I have succeeded in giving you vision power and full life. (10)
May Agni Dev, the protector of your dependents, protect me. May the rising sun protect me from the loops of death. Usha, keep the loops of death away from me. I wish you all the best. May my soul reside in me. Keep trying my senses. (30)
On the basis of which the law of penance is made and the best circles are maintained, in which true faith, water and Brahman are prevalent, tell us about that God, who is He? (11)
Hosts are brilliant, the givers of sacrifices and praises the agni with words. Those who expand the earth-sky continuously by agni water, the hosts always serve those granaries- agni. 
O herb! Make my hair strong and produce my hair that has not been born. Make my hair that has been created more vast. (2)
O Indra! In the yajna, large bright streams are flowing to the mad of Someras. You come to the Yagya Sadan and drink someras. 
 O Mon! You are the destroyer of the best quality weapons, protector, destroyer of nuisance, guardian, protector, creator of gods and wear the earthland. You give special basis to heaven. Such a divine Someras hosts filter. 
O Indra! You have created your own anti-hostile force by being pleased with the praises. Thus you have demonstrated your main strengths. Sitting in a chariot with horses called Hari, you have made some enemies a party and forced some to flee separately. 
 O hosts! Praise agni while desiring food and strength. They are dear and revered by all. O agni! We housewives worship you with happy hymns. 
The Nahusvanshis, squeezed by hymns and living near the devas, come to the Som Yajna. The mortal som marandharma goes to the yagna by the debtors, purifying the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair, with cow's leather and water. 
O son of strength, agni! Come with all of you agnis and accept this sacrifice of ours and our praises and give us food. 
O enemy and agni that wins wealth in every war! The sage named Pathyavrisha had ignited you well. 
The wise should not create discord in the intellects of ignorant people, who are attached to fruitive actions, by inducing them to stop work. Rather, by performing their duties in an enlightened manner, they should inspire the ignorant also to do their prescribed duties.
The maruts, ribhugana, who protected and amplified all of them, helped them by coming before Indra, who was brave, incoming, full of his brightness, the over-sacrificing, the one who destroyed the pride of the enemies, and the centurion.
The Manishi Angiragotris, who praised Indra and desired Indra, went to the path of the cows stolen by yajna from Indra, who inspired water. After this, the stoetas who wished to get protection through Indra received gorupa dhan through hymns and yajnas. 
Wishing for the welfare of all in the beginning of creation, the sages attained heaven and received the initiation of penance. May God provide that nation etc. for this man. (1)
Som shobhan-karmo lives in the spaced middle-minded viku to see the people by going through ten fingers. The soms who see humans see both humans and gods from space while protecting the yagnakarmo for the rain of welfare water. 
O Indra and Mon! You kill a demon called Vritra that stops the water. Heaven has believed you. You inspire the waters of the rivers and fill the sea with water. 
Although I am unborn, the Lord of all living entities, and have an imperishable nature, yet I appear in this world by virtue of Yogmaya, my divine power.
For the coming of the gods, the yajnavadhak of the yajna, the yajnapavak, the doors of the yajna, desired by many people and separated from each other should be opened. 
May the sages who compose the thirteen richas get this sacrifice well. (10)
O Indra Dev! You are rich and truthful. Which object is dear to you? Is it enjoyable, from which you shower money on the hosts? (40)
 O Mon! You are slow-moving above heaven. When you are filtered with a sieve, you become very fast and come to Dronakalsh. 
The enemies are fierce, full of devotees and seeing all, Som, who wishes to show his strength, makes words, sharpening his two horns of green. Mon sit in his properly maintained place. Sheep's leather and cow's leather purify the mon. 
Indra has immediately consumed somrupa food in the three saavans of this great yagna that created the world and has consumed the havanrupa food. Indra, the destroyer of the world-wide, the abductor of asura wealth, the enemy and the vajra- wielder, found the cloud and broke it away. 
Savita Dev, whose glory and glory is emulated by other deities, is widespread everywhere by her glory. (6)
O Indra! It is true that you are the master of wealth and the protector of truth. Let us desire fruits through our sacrificial deeds. O top-wielding Indra! We should consume food because of your protection. O Vajradhari Indra! We will soon defeat the enemies. 
O thunderbolt Indra! The hosts who wore the hawi gave you somers today and tomorrow. Listen to the praises of us stothren and come to our house. 
Pashupati Rudra, who is the swami of four-legged animals and two-legged humans, should be part of the yagya and the host should get the prosperity of wealth. (1)
Give us a brave son. Make us strong with cows. Give us horses. Give us servants. Please take this yajna of our gods according to the season. (19)
O aschinikumaro! Bring the measures by which you saved Divodas, who had given the great hospitality and the fear of demons, to enter the water, when he was killed by the Shambar Asura, and protected the sage Trisadsyu in the struggle. 
O Indra, who performs a hundred yajnas! The mantras of the Rigveda and the mantras related to Soma have praised you. May our praises also enhance your reputation. 
I praise the invincible and nourishing deserts by the enemies for giving me thousands of kinds of properties at the same time. Let the deserts reveal the hidden wealth to us and make us know the wealth. 
Jupiter has attained the seven-headed intellect generated by truth. Ayasya, born from the world, told Indra and created Turiya. (1)
 O agni! You deserve praise. You are visible from a distance. You are the protector of the house. The host revealed the agni by churning the forest. 
O Indra! In this war, the marudas worshiped you. At the time when you hit the face of the vritra with a sharp-edged thunderbolt, all the gods were happy to see you enjoying the battle. 
O Indra, protector of gentlemen! May famous and intoxicating ajya, purodash etc. please you in the work of enemies. May our famous hymns also make you happy because they are a means of happiness. May the famous Somers also please you. By praising, put an end to the host's ten thousand sins. (6)
O Swami of all! Make the host happy. O cow, horse, etc., raise animals! The person who believes in such a way that Indra adi dev is my protector, protect the children and animals of that man. (28)
O Indra! We have that somersa which has become liquid like water when prepared. We praise you. (1)
 O one who performs yajna! Squeeze someras for vajradhari Indra. Cook purodash 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages named the first conch. (8)
Whoever knows this, sharva, bhava and ishan are favorable to him from the angle of south direction. Men and animals who adapt to him. Sharvas do not violence them. (5)
Those who are willing to do violence to others, those who come from the west and worship me at night, they should get the water that receives the support of their destruction, that is, herbs. (6)
The soothing Som, born in dulok, who gives money to the donors, who desires the donors and is well-versed, dries out juices for the true Indra. King Soma is supposed to hold force. Ten fingers hold a large amount of mon. 
The wives of Indra, who are with a charitable mind and performs good deeds efficiently by hand, are the daughters of Indra who perform the saraswati river and the ultimate deepthishali raka built by Vibhu, fulfilling the wishes and the brightest. They give us money. 
O agni! We call on you. By your grace, we have become successful. We illuminate you. You accept our havi and bring it to the ancestors' place to eat it. (57)
Fire had filled the earth, the sky, and the vast heaven. The hosts held the agni. Rhinoscopes and granaries are brought to get food like a horse. 
O Sobhan Bale Wale Mon! You come down to the characters named Chamu and become the weight-carrying force of the people like the king, bring down the speed of the water from space and complete the yajnakarma of the host who desires the cow. 
Hota performed a yagna for Ashwinikumars with the med of Chhag. Please also perform yajna with the same havi. Hota performed a yagna for Saraswati Devi with the med of Aries. Please also do yajna with the same havi. Hota establishes Rishabh's fat for Indra's happiness. Do such a yajna for the welfare of all. (41)
Who liberates you? Who commands you? Who calms you down? Who gives you happiness? The scholar (poet) God does all this. (39)
Indra runs the wheel of his chariot sharply to destroy enemies in the battle. They stay away from the soma squeezer and increase the soma squeezer. The teachers of the world, the scare-doers and the masters, Indra Das, keep the doers of action under control. 
It is difficult to avoid the famous ordnance fever, headache, etc. of Yamraj and which are going to destroy people. May agni and vaishvanar adi dev save you from all of them. (27)
The enemy who afflicts us should become inferior to the power of the hands. O Indra! The enemies who challenge us for war with the help of their armies, unite them with your weapons, the huge thunderbolt. In these brave hearts, the one who is going to hurt me in the form of death, he should be more injured and get a bad condition. (1)
Let's see the path of those who want to follow the path of The Dadhidra Dev Yajna. Let the agni listen to our divine force and hymn. Listen to my praises, the foolish and the great God. 
Those, who teach this most confidential knowledge amongst my devotees, perform the greatest act of love. They will come to me without doubt.
 O agni! Your horses are going to leave soon. Your horses are also powerful. You plough them in the chariot. 
We praise yajna, host, richas, mantras of Samaveda, mantras of Yajurveda and the medicines and hotas mentioned in these Vedas. Let them free us from sin. (14)
May Indra, who fulfills desires, the powerful, the destroyers of enemies in the battlefield, the vajra in his hand, the guardian of the people and surrounded by the bright maruts, come from near or far away to shelter us. 
O Serpento! Your parents are aligi i.e. clinger and willing i.e. non-adhesive. We are familiar with all your brothers. What will you do when you are juiceless, that is, poisonless? (7)
O agni! You have a co-existence in water. You wear medicine with water. Appear repeatedly from the womb of the banaspatis. (36)
There are many earthworms. (9)
O agni that indicates yajna! The mutually loving ritwizs ignite you. The descendants of Manu call you to the yagna with the desire to find the host happiness. 
O aschinikumaro! Come with the remedies by which you have given the wife and red coloured songs for the sage Vimad and gave the famous wealth to Sudas. 
O ladies! You are pure. You are naturally pure. Please do Havi Sister to the gods. Havi is in the best character. Please accept it. By his grace, we are also going to work. (13)
O Shur Indra! Just as people leave the horse when the path is over, so so also you deliver us at the time of the middle day, so that we may please you. O all-knowing and asura-destroying Indra! We speak beautiful praises to you like host Ushana. 
Which god will make us happy? Which god will come first in our yajna? Which god among the gods will do us more good? Which is the fast-moving chariot which has got the choice of the daughter of the sun? This means that the said qualities are only in the Aschinikumaras. 
O Indra! You as protectors of friendly hymns and come before us in many ways, protecting us. 
O Indra! Listen to our praises, give us food of various kinds, give us all wisdom, and be the giver of the cow for us. 
O warriors and friends created together! You fight ahead of Indra, the one who receives water, the one who receives water, the vajradharman in your hand, the conqueror and the dynamic enemy army with power and defeats indra with power and attain happiness. 
O Indra! You have all the force in you and after drinking somras, your mind becomes very happy. We know that there is thunderbolt in both your hands. So you should break away all the strength of the enemies. 
The fastness of agni circulates within all beings in the form of oxygen and oxygen. They further illuminate the heavens by spreading their glory. (7)
O Indra! I should overcome the evil sense caused by poverty through animals. O Indra called by many! We should all remove hunger with the help of barley etc. Not being defeated by the opposing jurors, we should take the main money from the gambling house. (7)
The life in the male mouth combines agni with the air. Therefore, life should be protected. The outer air meets the prana air located in the mouth. Indra etc. gods have created the sun that illuminates everywhere with prana air. (7)
 O Indra! You make man longevity and are beneficial to human beings. You have published many things for humans. You come and be happy. Please sit on the seat of Kush. 
 O Indra! We have prepared this somerus by cleaning, filtering. The stunning Marudganas and Ashchini gods drink this Somras. 
Arjun said: O Master of the senses, it is but apt that the universe rejoices in giving you praise and is enamored by You. Demons flee fearfully from you in all directions and the hosts of perfected saints bow to you.
O mortal Mon! We will make you immortal by drinking, we will go to heaven and receive the gods. What will the enemy do to us? What will the violent enemy of My man do wrong? 
O Shataudana Gau! May your two arms, both shins, both shoulders and thatt always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (19)
I have seen that Prajapatis create beings from afar. They hold themselves through chakraless swadha. Lord Indra creates the yagnakalas of the hosts. They soon take on a new body and destroy the enemy. 
Enough somras kept for the stable Indra inspires indra's early assh towards yajna. The chariot which is carried in the struggle by green horses, the same chariot is located in the yajna, anointed by Indra and full of somras. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Destroy the violent and burrowing rat. Cut off his head and crush his back bone. The rat could not eat our barley, so close its mouth. By doing this, you should be afraid for grain. (1)
 O Indra! Just as purodash 
One form of the perzanya is similar to an old cow unable to give birth and the other form is the same as the cow giving water delivery. The parasites change their body as desired. Mother Earth takes water-like milk from the father of the bholokarupi. His father and his family-like sons grow. 
Soma, who fights with the Ritvijas and performs shobhan karma, sits in the water like a fearless king or eagle bird. 
May the gods and blessings be our well-being. May our intellect and our wealth give us happiness. Let the true words with graceful restraint be made to relieve our sorrow and give us happiness. May Aryama Dev, born at the beginning of all, give us happiness. (2)
O like the developed truth and the king of the whole world, Indra! The gods have inspired you to be slaughtered in the same way that an adult father encourages his son to do something. You stopped the water and hit the sleeping vritra and deepened the saritas who gave happiness to all. 
O Vajgan and Rybhuo! Tell us the path of yajna. O genius! Give us the strength to conquer all directions in exchange for your praise. 
O rich indra! Many people praise you and call you for the sake of their protection, among them sit on the chariot only to give us wealth. O Indra! Your mind is unsavoury and joyful. 
The three qualities of Rajogun, Tamogun and Satogun and earth, water, tej, air, sky, tanmatra and ego, the seven substances travel everywhere in divine form, brahma, the swami of speech, give me the divine power of those elements and substances. (1)
O agni! You are endowed with divine qualities. We should get your protection including wife, son, brother etc. We emulate you with all this. We emulate you to get heaven. You are the best. You are published in paradise. May we attain the elevated world by your grace. (50)
Tirshchiraji snakes have been killed and snakes called Pridaku have been grinded. O Darvi! You destroy the white and black karikarita snakes lying on the dabho. (13)
O son of strength, the agni set with all the knowers and the praises! Be pleased with our yajnakarmas. You have all the food with many forms and strange satiety on you. 
Indras of Soma possess unlimited glory and fill the earth and sky with their glory. Indra has defeated the whole world, so his glory is the greatest. 
Hey Mon! Protect us from non-donating and all other blasphemers. Protect us by means by which we can be freed. 
Should we carry the bright and capable horse given by the phonetic son of Lakshman? Just as the cows go to the transit land, so should the money given by the phonetic come to the house of the sage. 
O agni! You will accept our praise because of Havi. What swadha will you find when you hear our praise? O agni of beauty! When will we become masters and sellers of wealth that cannot be dominated by the princes and is sufficient? 
The cows given by Indra should not be destroyed and thieves cannot steal them. The weapons of the enemies should not hurt those cows. The cows whose milk and ghee are performed and which are given as dakshina of yajna, the host should stay with those cows for a long time, do not be detached from them. (3)
 O Mon! You are divine, holy and exquisite. The host worships while declaring your immortality. 
Those who invoke the gods and wish for the fruits of the yajans are born of the arani by man for the sake of eating the holy fire and for the sake of eating the havi. The creators of all happiness are like money for the host who wants fire friendship and desires famous food. The yajnavedi is in the best place of the earth. There are shaktisanas and yagyaras sitting surrounded by fire rituals. 
 Som is a knight. They are squeezed with fingers. They intelligently go to Indra in a fast-moving chariot. 
O Shur Indra! Give us the best force. O enemy defeating Indra! Give us the unbearable and the best ooz. O lord of the horses called Hari! Give us all the riches to complement the human desires to please. 
O agni! You are the fasting king Varuna and the praiseworthy enemy friend. You are the protector of the gentlemen and the widely donated aryama and ansh i.e. the sun. Make the sacrifice of all of you successful. 
Brahman, the cause of sat, chit, bliss and the whole world, first appeared in the form of the sun, which originates in the east direction and pervades the whole world with its radiance. This light and rain cause the sunlight to spread its beautiful light starting from all directions. He is the same sunlight that reveals the knowledge of the place of origin of sat and asat and the knowledge of earth, sky etc. (1)
Hey Mon! We protected by you and kill our enemies as soon as we find them. You be awakened in our yajnas. 
O gem! You are made of tilak tree. You are the defense formula that drives away the work etc. You are going to remove the magicians done by others. Hold on to kill an enemy more powerful than Me and leave an enemy as powerful as me and move forward. (2)
O Savita Dev! This chariot of yours is full of wealth and will follow everyone. May it bring happiness to us. We praise for happiness, wealth and food. We praise the praiseworthy Savita. 
 O Mon! You enter the dronakshalash by removing the moving, bright and black skin like cows. You are praised. 
He departed towards the ultimate direction. (13)
O king! May Savita Dev strengthen you from all sides. Agni, Mitra and Varuna make you strong. Subdue all your enemies and come to this nation and speak true and loving speech. (20)
The kapiphus who bring the upabunds are the ones who are ajya. (11)
Somras is Indra's beloved, friendly and drinkable. May Indra be pleased to drink this amritrup somras and please us to drive away our enemies and sins. 
O patient! Let your life not decay and your own air should not forsake you. May the sun lift you from it while lying on the death bed with its rays. (15)
O indra with many many commen! Just as Gopal makes the cows especially happy in the barley field, so we will please you by the eagles. 
O splendid agni! When you are born from dry wood in the form of Arani being ignited, then only can the host starts the yajna. They attain divinity by serving you, the deathless agni, through the hymns. 
O hosts! Three thousand, three hundred thirty and nine i.e. thirty-three hundred forty-nine gods worship agni. Devgan waters the agni with ghee offerings. They lay the seat of Kush to sit on agni. Perform yajna by establishing them as used to. (7)
O medicinal form juice! You have been eclipsed in upyam for both Ashwinikumars. You have been accepted for the best protection of Saraswati. You have been assumed for the best protection of Indra. It is the original place of Ashwinikumar, Saraswati Devi and Indra Dev. May we be protected by the grace of Ashwinikumar, Saraswati Devi and Indra Dev. (33)
Let Rudraputra Ashwini kumar protect us. May the lord of the whole god chariot, Pusha, Bhaga Ribhu, the lord of food, and all the other moving gods give us happiness. 
O Ritwijo with shobhan hands! Come running, take the white colored som from the mathani and mix the intoxicating mon with cow's milk, curd, etc. 
He is the one who showers indra's desires and is radiant with his brilliance. They make the sky and earth miniature. O Indra! You wish somras as well as the best of the above. (2)
May the earth and sky paint the sacrificial pillar of my yajna i.e. yupe well. While appearing, they should color the yoop of the Sun Yagya. God who follows the mantra should paint my yupe. Savita Dev, everyone's motivator, make this yupe colorful. (1)
The human subjects who wanted money performed the rites of the masters of the people and the brilliant agni so that they would be as bright as a sharpened sword. Fires permeate the high and low places and conceive themselves in all the realms.  
 O agni! You are powerful. Just as horses carry a vehicle, so you carry the vehicle of the gods. O Haviman! You accept our prayers. 
This sacrifice should be well received by the first five anukakas for the Angiras i.e. the sages of the Angira tribe. (1)
The deserts destroy the enemies with their own oj like a vicious bull. They force the thundering, pervading and raining clouds that please the world to rain by their own passage. 
 O Indra! You are successful, patient, kill enemies and master of power. We haven't heard of a god like you before. 
O Ritavari i.e. cow that gives milk in excess! When you stood covered with gold ornaments, O Vasa Gau! The ocean came near you as a horse, that is, at a fast pace like a horse. (16)
O Ashwinikumaro! Please increase this yajna with your defense tools today. Help us mitra dev, varun dev, aditi dev, sindhu dev, prithvilok in protecting the money provided by you. Help us in protecting the wealth provided by you. (30)
The light-washed sun, hidden in the cave, possessed of strange kushas and received the brightly-tempered somras. 
Indra Dev is bright, glorious, desired and ancient to all. You sit in the direction of the earth. Please come to our yagya with Adityas and Vasus. Sit on the seat of the huge Kush. (39)
O you of holy force and with your own glory, Maruto! I'll call you to drink this somras. 
 The rising Indra 
O Arwan! Eve is dynamic. The mind moves upwards as fast as it is. The smoke of this is taken forward. The navel imitates this. The poets walk back and forth while reciting. (23)
 O Indra! You are a splendor and a constant protector. The praises with sweet speech are like horse chariots, like weapons 
Devagana becomes powerful only because of Soma and it is from Soma that the earth has become great. Mon are located adjacent to these nakshatras. 
As soon as Usha arrives, her sister removes the darkness of the night. After this, Usha opens the cosmic and Vedic path completely. Through this usha, we should get the food given and beneficial by the gods. May we be happy for a hundred years with a good son and grandson in doing karma. (1)
I praise the uninitiated and vast agni, promptly inspired by the deities worthy of yajna. The agni has expanded the earth, the earth, the earth, its middle part and the sky with its brightness. 
O praiseworthy Indra! You have destroyed the elusive vritra by your powers with the desire to make food. People serve you to get the cows stolen by the panies. You are praised in all yagnas and havans. 
Those agnis are going to do the welfare of both the peoples. They are especially taraks and yagyaks. The agni made the milch cow milkable when it was not fit to be married. Sage Shanyu praised his friends Varuna and Aryama with great and praiseworthy mantras. 
This Dev runs faster than two-legged even if he is one-legged, two-legged three-legged people. The four-legged man takes service from them by looking into the row of two-legged and those who live in one voice. O Rohitdev to the criminal of such an angry God and the violent brahmaghati of the learned Brahmin! You stagger, make it weak and tie it to your firm loops. (25)
O fire! Honey made from somras is the first thing I'm giving you to drink. You come with the marurgens. 
Towards the south, the gods made the two months of summer its protector and appointed Yajnayagyya and Vamdevya as its ritualists. (4)
O brave teachers! Gift somras to the great Indra. They are the king of Mon. These praises have been increased by the ancient and new praises of the sages. 
O Indra! This praise broadens your strength. Your strength accelerates your deeds and thunderbolts. 
 Like the fast-rising waves, praises of the host rise. The host wants to convey his praise to the deity as soon as possible. Praises praise the deity, reach out to him and become one in him. 
O Maruto! By getting your protection, The Stota became Shobhan Dhanwala in ancient times. The one who is the psalm must become your devotee. 
May Savita Dev, the master of sufficient wealth, the one who allows deeds, who subdues both destination and real movable by all, give us welfare for the destruction of the sin in our three realms. 
O Indra! Your own works in the struggle are famous. In the struggle, you put the asuras named Dhuni and Chumuri to sleep. Dabhiti Raja, who collected the samidahas and cooked the ivyan, squeezed the Somras and made you bright. 
O Indra and Agni! For your happiness, we squeeze the somras, praying brightly and full of your wishes. O Indra and Agni with beautiful palms with beautiful palms! Come quickly and endow our mon with the current melody in the water. 
Oh, King! You rise as unmoved as a mountain and do not be as eroded from the kingdom. You stay here as you are as brave as Indra and hold on to the nation. 
The agni established by the labyrinth is the only one that is a virulent, a food and a nutrient. The agnis are more luminous by offering the incense. The agnis performed by the abrasive are illuminated like the sun. 
O agni! On behalf of the sage, they put a havan between you three times a day. O agni! You like Manu, worship the gods in this yajna, be our messengers and save us from our enemies. 
May this mind of ours come back (from the fatherland). Please come to jivlok for yajna work. We can see sunlight again and again. (54)
O Indra! By achieving growth, you establish the water of rain, the lifeline of the whole world, from the sky to the parts of the earth by your own force. You have separated the water from the cloud by being pleased with the sompan and destroyed the vritra by the vast stone. 
 O agni! Of course, you take food in the form of dry samidha. You increase 
O Aditi and Aditya! He became serviceable because of leaving us the admirable trap which forsakes us by Your grace. Just as the bond is left to the bound man, so this trap leaves us. 
O Vajradhari Indra! At this time, we do not praise any god other than you on the desire of new karma in the form of yajna. We only know your praise. (2)
Everywhere, we irrigate the present and the agni that is willing to come towards the yagna with ghee. Accept him with a agni-interrupted mind. Fires with the color that are doable and dear to humans cannot be touched by anyone when it is fully ignited. 
Let our regular yagna go in front of the best agni in the angiras. Fire is in humans and they are the most successful. 
O great, the glorious maruto himself, the glorious one of the magnificent, the magnificent ones! When will I follow you? 
May the sacrifices of brat, penance, rain, day and night and sacrifice be pleased with us. Please bless us with the sacrifice. May this yajna be fully fruitful. (23)
O Saraswati! This havi with ghee performed for you and this havi given for the ancestors and those who give happiness for us, these are dedicated to you. We may be food containing sweet juices by the hives given for you, (2)
O thunderbolt Indra! May our praise be received by you even while staying away. From you we get enough money. 
Hey Mon! In the yajna, the ritvijs squeeze you to the Indradi devas with the help of stones. You fall into the drinkalash with a glistening stream. 
A liar should be appointed for gambling, a reviewer for the active, an imaginist for Treta, an incomputer for dwapar. Stable mind is fine in an attack-like situation. In the event of death, the imitator of the senses is fine. For Yamraj, cow traitors, begging for hunger, charkacharyas for the prevention of sins and those who can give strict punishment for the wicked should be appointed. (18)
Fire appears for our welfare. We call upon them for welfare. They provide welfare and good luck for us. We sing hymns for them in welfare experts. (38)
The seventy-surface ganglions located in the veins of the neck pervade the arteries of the neck. All of them should be destroyed in such a way that all the defects are destroyed by getting pativrata. (2)
O glorious God! You wear an iron rod that inspires food. Make a mark on the hearts of all the greedy ones from him and soften them. 
O agni! You are worthy and well known. Please hold the best money for us and come to us. You are the emperor. Come with grace and bless us too. (38)
O men! Wishing Someras, Indra who inspires his horses named Hari to walk and who killed asuras named Shambar and Shushna, is the only Indra. (17)
O wise Indra! We admire both of your yellow horses. O indra who gives the cow! You don't destroy hymns. Don't let you destroy our cows by these two horses. 
Or, indra, who sees all the people and does good deeds with the power of the deserts, should come from heaven with violence-free defense means and be friendly to get more wealth and food. 
Mons are one of the sacred substances by praise. Som dashapavitra goes to the After this, the karmic force reaches the drin kalash. 
O various elephants, the food-rich and beloved agni of the hosts! Your bright flames are your hairstyle. Hosts call you to carry the hawd. 
Vivasvan means the Sun holds us in nectar, that is, make us death-free. May death turn away from me under his influence. May we have deathlessness. May the Sun God bless our sons and grandsons till old age. Do not go to Yama, son of Vivasvan, the son of these men. (62)
Seek refuge in divine knowledge and insight, O Arjun, and discard reward-seeking actions that are certainly inferior to works performed with the intellect established in Divine knowledge. Miserly are those who seek to enjoy the fruits of their works.
Indra, the most violent, the most powerful, the most powerful and the giver of food to the stoetas, the violent of the violent, the most powerful, and the food to the stoes, attained the wajja that pierced all the puris, only then he became the king of Madhur Som. 
Velocity abuses go towards the agnis water. The drops together in the water with the mighty maruts . The deserts that know everything and are unbeatable, fill with more water and vibrate mountainous clouds. 
The fingers inspire the green-colored, beautiful and many-looking Mon towards a higher place. 
Oh, the horse! The juice that flows from your pot while being cooked in the fire, and the blood that goes into the colic when it kills you, should not fall to the ground, nor be found in the straws. It should be given to the gods who wish for the whole. 
O friends and Varuns who don't have a gift and protect the world! Both of you are extremely great, unhindered and possess innocent pleasures. By the same pleasure you protect us. Let us be the ones who get the desired money and win the enemy. 
 O Indra! You are going to settle everyone. Who can scare you? The host who is a devotee towards you wishes to give havi even when he overcomes sorrow. 
O men! In this yajna, praise the same Indra and Agni and embellish them in many ways. Sing praises of both of them by resorting to Gayatri verses. 
Indra has watered the earth's four freshwater rivers. The same is the most revered and beautiful deed of the visible Indra. 
Both the sun and the moon play like children and walk ahead with their power and travel to the ocean. In both of these, one i.e. the moon illuminates all the bhuvanas and the other means the sun creates all the seasons and gives newness to everyone. (11)
O Indra and Agni! For you, a hum like somras, crushed by stones, has been given. You give great food to the wise and enough food to the praise-givers. 
Agni, Indra, Mitra, Aryama, Vayu, Pusha, Saraswati, Adityagana, Vishnu, Marudgana, Heaven, Vast Heaven, Som, Rudra, Aditi and Brahmanaspati all together complete the space with their glory. 
O Indra! Your protective means are always presented for the host who gives you courage. (5)
The worshiping host worships Indra and sings the glory of Stota Indra. (7)
The elder Ribhu said, "We will make two spoons." To him, the younger One Said, "We will do three of a spoon." The youngest, Ribhu, said, "We will do four parts of the spoon." O Ribhu! Your guru, Taksha, accepted the four-part thing of the spoon. 
O Indra! In the yajna in which both the blades have spread out like the thighs to squeeze somlata, in the same yajna drink the somras prepared by Okhali knowing your own knowledge. 
O man-benefactor, always young and material-carrying agni god! You obey us all by your sacrificial deeds, so men have accepted you for the sake of the gods. 
Varuna knows the path of birds flying in the sky and the boats that run in the ocean. 
O man! We serve with life for the mind that experiences happiness, for the mind, for the means of meditation for the intellect, for the means of memory for resolution, for the means of knowledge for consciousness, for the mind due to the memory of the past, for the knowledge generated by hearing and for the knowledge generated by the eye. (1)
We read the praise of the gods from whom we want to get wealth again and again. This eulogy is as pleasing as gold ornaments. In the war, just as the soldiers move forward or the pitchers of the rahat move forward, so our hymns grew. 
The learned Brahmins establish twelve somapatras, imagining forty verses. Those scholars complete the yajna with their wisdom and run their yajnarupi rath with the help of Riku and Som mantras. 
Our praise speeches go to Indra to bring him to our yajna. (3)
Som receives praise from poets and scholars. They are above all gods. They are culturedly refined in many ways. 
O aschinikumaro! Encourage us to speak sweet words, fulfill our sacrificial deeds and instill in us many wisdoms. We wish these three. Give us successful money. Let us be the same as the Somras to please the hosts. 
 O agni! You are fierce, brave and archer. Your flames are like sharp horns 
In this bhulok, the poets who have done deep deeds everywhere have beautified the earth and the sky to gain strength. They have set the boundaries of the earth and the sky. The inter-compatible, vast and great earth-sky is occupied by intermediate space. 
Listen to our praises, the masters of force, the sky-bearers, the super-swimming, the moving and the wind that moves around. The waters around the great mountains, like the cities, hear our praises. 
O Indra and Mon! You have held confirmatory milk in the tender trunks of cows. You have worn unstoppable and white-coloured milk in cows of different colours. 
O God! You are the controller of the world. You know our aspirations very well. You know our prayers very well. You feed us and our children. You provide us with all kinds of welfare. By your grace, may our children be brave and glorious. You are the doer of all the work, the guardian and the food. (58)
Three confirmants should depend on this tribron. Usha Devi increase this yajna karma with milk and ghee. There should be a lot of food, men and animals in this shelter. (3)
O you have been irrigated with soma, the fluid, the shakat-like nested, the words, the agni that is created and ignited in the seasons! Somers are given to you. You are dear to the great ushas and beautify in all things at night. 
O God! You go towards yajna. You get the sacrifice. Go to your native place. This is your sacrifice. You go to Yajnapati. We offer sacrifices to you. We praise you with thousands of words. You are the most brave. We offer sacrifices for you in this yajna. (22)
Hey Mon! The lights that the hosts worship you through the havan, may our yajna be found all around. O rich man! Som, who protects from sin, is possessed of brave heroes and protectors of sons! You come to our homes. 
O one with infinite food, shatruparajakari, raman in someras, rich, shobhana praise and beautify Indra, who is not challenged by others in war. Stota namaskar praises Indra. 
Fire is our friend. They water us with water. We sing hymns to them. They are superior and make the earth energetic. (29)
These dynamic, placed on the vessel by Adhwaryu, walk on the dasapavittra made of the hair of the eternal and the lord of the hymn, Som sheep. 
The place of the well that was located in the middle of the udak and going around to harass others was hidden in the water. It grows and becomes brighter than the shallow waters abducted. The rivers named Anjasi, Kulishi and Varitrini hold it by pleasing him with their waters. 
O Varuna! Redeem us from all your good and sins. Remove the sin in the nightmare from us. Sinless, let us reach the land of virtue. (4)
O agni! We ask cows for milk that is constantly related to the yagna. They sing themselves, even if they are true, give sweet milk. Those cows themselves are black, but reinforce with milk that makes the white-coloured, life-giver and the people immortal. 
O brother of hosts, lord of the horse named Rohita created by power and the agni of pure deeds! You accept this hymn of mine. 
The Ritvijas of the gods, the yajnakars, the sons of Manu, that is, human beings, attain nectar and are truthful deities, may they give us more yajna today. O gods! May you always protect us with welfare safeguards. (5)
Sing nitya milkshali and tejaswini sing yajnas while repeatedly wishing for agni, feed the agni received in the country. The flowing streams flow to the country far away from near the mountain, begging for grace from the agni. 
O aschinikumaro! Your horses are pure, rainwater drinkers, quick as the wind, divine, fast-paced as the mind, young and with beautiful backs. Let them bring you into this yajna. 
I make great words, speaking of the same famous, upright, humble, highly selective, powerful and clean words for the growth of the scholar Indra, the giver of wealth. 
The Supreme Lord said: Those who perform prescribed duties without desiring the results of their actions are actual sanyāsīs (renunciates) and yogis, not those who have merely ceased performing sacrifices such as agni-hotra yajña or abandoned bodily activities.
 O Vasishtha 
O men! It is surprising to see that this Indra scatters rays in the form of the sun by bringing the unconscious beings to the senses in the morning, and giving form to the substances in the morning which have became formless due to darkness in the night. 
The air moving outside flowed for us. May everyone's inspiring sun heat up giving happiness for us. May the day give us happiness and the night also gives us happiness. May the dawn develop in such a way that we can get happiness. (1)
There should be cows, children and strength in the body. May the gods provide all this for the one who donates the bull. (20)
May this ahuti for subtle qualities be well received. (6)
 May the Indra we are praising give us the best wealth. May Indra give us the Riphu devta, who became immortal by drinking Someras. Strong Indra! Give us strong younger brothers so that we can get food. 
O daughter of heaven Usha! Let the sorrow of the goldsmith or the garland maker who makes the filler go away from me. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
All the hosts praise the great might of Indra in each yagna. Indra is a one who is always in the yagna and is strong. 
Who gives? To whom does it give? Someone gives it to someone only by desire. Donations are given and taken only by desire. Desires are everything (in the world). (48)
Vamdev said, "We will not be born through this inaccessible vagina. We'll get out of the side diagonally. We have a lot of things to do without doing it – war with someone and a debate with someone." 
Neither have I eaten Odan nor has Odan eaten Me. (30)
All the ancestors born in our gotra, father, etc. sat in the yagna well and make us happy. They increase our age. We should also attain age and live forever by worshiping the ancestors by the havis. (29)
O Indra! The hundred and one thousand horses that you have to ride on are wishful and fast-moving. Come here quickly with the help of those horses. 
O Savita Dev! You are seated between heaven and earth. You are a scholar, satyavan and the abode of the rals. You have been wanted by scholars. You are going towards height, shiny, golden hands and superior work. May you keep your grace on us. We worship you. We worship you for the sake of the people. The subjects follow you in breathing. Please also follow the subjects and breathe. (25)
 O Indra! Don't leave us to the wicked and the abusers. You provide holy wealth like shachi through holy education. 
May the arrogant god of life be your protector. May Pusha Dev protect your path that leads east. O ghost! May Savita Dev bring you to heaven as the abode of virtuous souls. (55)
The man who knows about odan being located in the solar system is located in the solar system and finds shelter in the sun system. (2)
O aschinikumaro! Sit on the same chariot as fast as the mind, which was built for you by the gods named Ribhu, and the chariot by which the sun's daughter Usha is born and the sun is born day and night. 
O school that is acceptable to all! I open the knots of your bamboos, of wood, of straws and of trees. (4)
That land should provide us with the money we want. May God be an inspiration to us and May Indra be ahead of us. (40)
Let the air of life not abandon me. Don't let your air leave me. (3)
O Indra! You hear the praises and shed the flow of wealth. Money is going to give happiness and abode to many. You are the unique master of man and the king of all the worlds. 
O Indra! That somras fill both your wombs. May that mon, squeezed with hymns, permeate your body. Oh, Shur! Let it permeate your arms for mon dhan. 
O yagya neta friend and Varuna! You come accepting the Somarupi Ahuti and do the Sompan while increasing the yajna. 
O Kumar! At the time of leaving your house, the earth is going to do mars, do not cause anger and give you money. Let the sun be pleasant for you and the air becomes favorable to your mind and becomes happy. May divine water rain for you with many types of flavors and welfare. (14)
Hey Paso! I salute the general of your group, who is the king and chief. I say the truth with folded hands with ten fingers that in the future I will not earn money from gambling. 
O leaders who drink more som and are spectacular aschinikumaros! Make our house full of horses, cows and gold. 
O selectable school! The bondage in you, the loop and the ones that are knots, I open them as powerful as Jupiter with my mantra force. (2)
Oh, Usha! You bring all the gods from space to our yajnasthan for sompan. Oh, Usha! You give us praiseworthy and powerful food containing horses and cows. 
People who want money are definitely getting money. The women of others find their husbands close by, mate with them and bear semen in the womb and produce children. O earth and sky! Know this suffering of mine. 
Like a beautiful house, able to protect the wealth given to the worshipers, like ripe barley, usable by all, praising the gods like the sages who see the mantra, like a famous host and like a horse, Agni give us the grain. 
The desireful adhwaryu etc. praise the agni through the havans by performing yajna and taking a scratch in their hands. 
The lights of the agni that are ignited at the beginning of the yajna are as pleasurable to the eyes as the wealth with the offspring. 
We meet the masters of Havya, the destroyers of the enemies of the King Of Divodas, with praises from the agni, the guardian of the hosts. 
O earth! Clouds will rain heavily on you for crop growth. Because of that rain, you became strong. This cloud arising in the sky will scatter the earth. O dhata! Give us part of the water in the sky. You should leave the water-filled mashak of cloud capable of providing rain, that is, do great rain. (1)
O agni! Arans are your mothers. Living within them, you sleep in the forests. Humans burn you well. Be lazy and bring the gods to the gods for the welfare of the faithful host and be adorned among them. 
O Darvi Devi! Please be full of food located nearby. Please go towards Indra. They perform hundreds of sacrifices. We should sell (exchange) the food juice among ourselves. (49)
Mon goes into Indra's stomach. Being a friend, Som does not disturb Indra's stomach.  Just as men meet young women, so do they meet in som water and go to the kalash by the way of dashapavittra with hundred holes. 
 The night-like woman who covers the rays of the sun has come. It is going to relax the whole world. It seeks the welfare of the whole world. 
Indra tells all the yajnakarmas to the gods when the drunk Somras is drunk. 
O agni! You are going to make you holy. Make heaven bright. You invoke the gods here. Please take this havi to the yajna and bring it to them. (9)
O agni! Your psalmists who are born by Your grace. Therefore, we scholars should also be enriched with sons, grandsons etc. because of your praise. You destroy our sin. (4)
 O Mon! You are holy and blissful to Indra. You are being taken to the designated location by the host. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Save us to get food by the means by which you protected the kanva, the medhatithi, the vams, the dashavaraj and the gosharya. 
 O Mon! For the gods to drink, you are mixed with water like the Indus. You are blissful as well as a awakener of consciousness. You should sit in a vessel that showers sweet juice with water. 
I have two straight and fast-moving horses of virtue, a hundred cows of Sumidhava, and the cooked food grains of Peruk. The king named Shand had given the stoes of the Ashchinikumaras a chariot made of gold, ten beautiful horses and horses to defeat the enemies. 
 The squeezed somerus makes a sound and attains the divine form. It is purified with the milk of cows. He is divine, luminous and unworthy. 
O Parth, such is the state of an enlightened soul that having attained it, one is never again deluded. Being established in this consciousness even at the hour of death, one is liberated from the cycle of life and death and reaches the Supreme Abode of God.
O Indra! With your wisdom, you have established the water-filled and situated rivers everywhere above the earth. 
 With the mere gesture of Indra, the horses are joined together in the chariot. Indra is a vajradhari and jeweler. 
The sun-rays, which are infinite, pervasive and perform enlightening deeds, move together with the solar system and move in heaven, earth and sky. 
The welfare-doer Saraswati should do our welfare. May the one with a good speed and the annaswamini Saraswati instill in us the wisdom. I am praising you like Jamdagni. You get Vasishtha i.e. my above mentioned hymns. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Dumnik is your hymn. In the rainy season, just as the water of the well comes near, so come you. Hey leaders! This hymn is dear to the intoxicating somras in the radiant yajna. Just as the gaur deer drinks water in the pond, you drink somers. 
O divine burn! I beg you. You combine me with your juice. O God of Agni! I am coming with food. You make me containing fast. (46)
O Indra and Air who drink the holy Somras! As long as your body is moving, as long as there is strength, and as long as the ritwijas are illuminated by the force of knowledge, then drink our holy somras and sit on these kushas. 
This odan is capable of making itself of many shapes in heaven in the same way. Just as the soul makes the wise person of many kinds and purifies the kalima, in the same way I burn Your form in the agni. (54)
We want to dedicate ghee to the mouth of agni. This is the original place of agni. The agni is on the verge of collapse. He is the abode of agni. Oh my god! You provide agni for agni. Make them fun of havi. Make them stronger than the will. Agni is requested to kindly take Havi to the prescribed god. (88)
Dynamic horse be stable. The axle of the chariot should be firm. Don't break the penalties and gambling. Hold indra before the falling nails are broken. O non-perishable chariots! Come before us. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! You make the poor rich. Indra, the thunderbolt, the like of the sky and the adorner of the shrew, destroys all sins and gives wealth to his praiseor. 
When Indra killed Vrithra, he was praised by the moving devyapatis. Indra had risen from the sky and the earth by his brightness, but the heavens and the earth could not transgress indra's glory. 
Hey, Lord! Create bright grains for our yajna. For the sake of our yajnakarma and strength, give us money with shobhan son-grandson, so that we may live happily with our brave children. Give us food for strength. 
O God of Tvashta! Confirming our water, food and wealth, open this woman's navel. (10)
O Mon with a wide passage! You shower the hymns while giving them a gift of charity, mixing the diva-prithvivi. You say the words wishing to get Usha, Aditya and Kiran to give us great food. 
O agni! I call the gods and perform yajnakarma on their behalf, fulfilling my desires through a yajna with non-violence rules. 
O teacher! You collect food containing three pillars for Indra, who makes the heroes rejoice. Indra welcomes you to begin the yajna by the most intelligent yajnakarma. 
The doy and the relaxing Mon is going towards the kalash giving us the money that will make us famous. 
O god of wisdom and enemies! We pray for the same power of defence with which you inspired the ancestors of Angira etc. 
Just as the scholar is given the gift of money, so after each mantra, the fire is given the saravan havan. Fire yajnadis provide heaven for our protection by means. They enter the havan given by the fire host and burn it like a forest. They cook the grains of barley, etc., with their brightness and destroy their strong enemies with their oz 
O Indra and Jupiter! This somerus is put in your mouth for the purpose of drinking and to give you happiness. 
O Indra! You drink our intoxicating, heroic, divine, wisely admired, famous and pleasing mon and give us money, sing etc. 
Agni leads us to our positions and Som is called our dayad. Indra is the one who kills and injures us. (14)
Indra gives food to the host who gives the havi. No one can help Indra in this work. (4)
I pray to the house of agni and the more gross agni, the friend of the mighty hosts of the demons and go to the house of agni. Flames that intensify are ignited by hosts. They protect us day and night from violent monsters. 
The agnis that call the gods, the supremely meritorious, the angels and the ones who carry the havan at the time of the yagnas of human beings, sat on the kushas laid out in our yajna. 
O Indra! You come out in front of the beautiful praise of the Kanvagotriya sages through your horses called Hari. O Indra of Deepthahavi! You rule the jhuloka, so go to Duloka. 
We call the great Indras, ribhus and maruts to drink somras for the purpose of protecting us. May they inspire us to prosper, yajnakarma and victory. 
The slightly dimmed and well-sightedness of the shobno-oriented fire and the sparks that luminate in all directions are shaktishalini. The dynamic and trembling flames of fire destroy the darkness of the night. 
O aschinikumaro! You built a boat for the son of the King Tugrah to swim in the sea, firm and stalk. Among all the gods, you kindly brought him out of the sea, and you came and saved him from the vast ocean. 
I praise the sighted and sea-son Ashwinikumars. They give shobhan property and give us residence when we perform yajna. 
O Indra! Come to drink someras through your chariot which is going to run faster than the mind. The horses with which you go out happily, let the horses bear you quickly. 
To the one we hate and to the one who hates us, we send this fear to him. (4)
The painful Rajayakshm disease that pervades the bones, which dries the flesh near the bones, which dilutes the upper part of the neck and which arises from the continuous intercourse with the wife, May this herb destroys all these types of tuberculosis. (3)
Even if Indra's attention is towards other hymns, we still call Indra. That Indra is ours. (16)
The evasive Som, who speaks like chariots and horses, come to give money to the hosts, wishing to snatch away the food of the enemies. 
When the molecule is struck in humans by the gross rib, the clouds like donkeys rolling in the dust increase in the roof. (2)
The sargarupa yajna which is spread all over the sky, etc., is pervaded by the deeds of a hundred gods. Prajapati's foster god, who pervades all the susti, creates this prapancha. They are the souls of this vast world. 
Which, with the power of the Supreme Man, the wise see everywhere through the mind, where the shining sun rises and shines, (now apart from them), for which God should we pray? The same supreme power has been praised in Apo Hadd Brihatih and Yashchidapa. (7)
The world with name and form is located in the remaining rice after Uchishta i.e. Home. All the worlds like earth etc. are located in this uchishta. The uchishtas are Indra and Agni. After the home, God has established the whole world in this remaining rice. (1)
 Hey friend! You are pure and efficient. O Varuna! You grow water. May you two gods give us wisdom. You save us and destroy our enemies. We call upon both of you gods. 
O pipvali! The asuras dug you up and the gods uprooted you for the benefit of all beings. You are the medicine of the person suffering from gout, the convulsion, that is, the medicine of the vata disease named epilepsy. (3)
O jataved agni! Give it a long life of a hundred years. O God of Tvashta! Set up more offspring for this. O inspiration of all Savita Dev! This motivates an excess of wealth. This son of all of you lived for a hundred years. (2)
One who sees and experiences himself (atma-tattva) in all beings (subconscious) never has any illusions. (6)
 O Indra! You are introverted. Take this somers. Drink it for your happiness, so that your stomach is completely filled. You are fearless on all sides. 
May the best deeds done by our ancestors related to yajna, well and garden with the help of three and eighty-three assembly singers, twelve men, eight vasus and Angira gotriya sages who perform long sessions should protect us from enemies. We control the enemy who is doing evil through the wrath of the god of witchcraft. (4)
We cannot know the wide Indra everywhere, for who can know the power of Indra, which is very far away? The devas had established their wealth, the revolution and the force in Indra, so Indra established his dominion. 
Huge stems from that Supreme Man. Creation stems from the universe. From that the land was born and then the creatures were born. (5)
May the greatest power, which is adorned with the supreme power and the supreme radiance, which adorns with light, which is brighter than the various radiances, may the greatest power make me strong and efficient. Give us the power to work. (27)
Oh, Usha! You have ignited the fire, made the dark world clear from the light of the sun and delivered man from the darkness by performing yajna, these things you have done for the welfare of the gods. 
 O Indra! You are invited everywhere by humans. We have been worshiping you for the destruction of Puru and Turvasha. Please destroy you 
Hey Mon! You are holy, filled in many vessels and mixed with milk and curd. You please the shur Indra the most. 
O great agni! The root cause of the bright water that is causing you to overwhelm all and shine is surrounding the sky from all sides. Your speed is invisible and spinach. You come here with your radiances ignited by us. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Without hesitation, you both brought out the king of Jahush, surrounded by your enemies, through his all-time iron-made chariot, out of the simple way at night and went to mountains where enemies could not climb. 
Indra's strength is superior. Indra pervades the armies. Countless heroes wish for their friendship. O Indra! The fragrance through which you inspire, with the same fragrance as the chariot, you pervade our heroes. (8)
At the time Surya went to her husband's house, her mind was her vehicle, the sky was the curtain and the sun and the moon were bulls. 
The man who conceives for the sake of the birth of the child does not even know the secret of it. The one who looks at the womb from the mother's enlarged stomach by guessing, he remains hidden from it too. He is located between the mother's vagina and experiences grief by causing many people. 
Because of the whole world, Brahman was born the first Brahmachari. Born brahmachari, covering himself with dharma, he rose through penance. The Wealth of Brahmins was born from that Brahmachari-like Brahman. From that Veda, agni adi dev was born with nectar. (5)
I give this deity a residence in my house. I pray to him to take water from him. I serve food for this deity. Accept this and serve food for him, etc. (13)
O willful, without a lot of desire and a great agni! You are illuminated by the glow. O glorious and glorious agni! You publish to us by your shobhan lamps. 
O doctor! We invite you, performed by Ashwini Devas, confirmed by Saraswati Devi, originated by Indra Dev. We consume you. (35)
Ashwath had given the air ten chariots along with horses and a hundred cows to the sages of the Atharva tribe. 
The agni of the pure sun that was created in the space above this earth, save us from the enemies. (5)
 O Indra! Do not accept the host who gets angry and squeezes somerus. Those who squeeze someras with good law, you should take someras in his yajna. 
O great and most rich Indra and Varuna! One of you is the emperor and the other is the swarata. That's all you want! All the gods gave you strength as well as brightness in the best of the heavens. 
The stones of the means of crushing the Somras did not forsake Indra, who created heaven. Ukathamtra and praises are worth speaking. 
The rays of the sun protect the yajna and the earth. Both ears of the rays are golden. (19)
O bhava and sharva! You don't make our bodies edible of dogs and jackals. Do not let vultures that do not bite and crows who desire meat eat our bodies. O Pashupati Rudra! Flies and your birds also do not get our bodies out of the desire for food. (2)
O Indra! Don't speak harsh words. You come to our yajna and sit on the lying kushas and be happy. (3)
May the sages who compose twenty richas get this sacrifice well. (17)
O Indra Dev! The host meditates on you in the yagna. Sing mantras for you. Increase water and power for you. You come to us. You plough loose horses like Vayu to come. You give us food. (18)
As soon as Tvashta said that I will abuse those who insult the patatra spoon of the gods, when the Somras were ready, they would have revealed themselves, with the names of Adhwaryu, etc., and their mother also began to be happy to call them by these names. 
We should greet and take food to the Agni God, who pleases everyone, is praised, who is constantly growing with the offerings of youth and ghee. Let them make me and my student 100 years old. (1)
Poets, homeowners and young agnimen are located in every house in front of the Panchjans. 
The snake belonging to Airavat exploited it and exploited the poison. (15)
The deserts, who are as well-versed as a constantly moving horse, who see festivals, are as glorious as human beings, and as well as children living in the house, they are like children playing and holding water. 
O Indra! When the herbs grow, the words that the gods love are spoken. No one among humans knows their age. You take away our sins. 
The mighty and energetic Indra has been born to publish his semen. The human-benevolent Indra must do what he wants to do. May Indra, who goes to the yagnabhavan with the means of protection, save us from the great sin. 
Hey Usha 
O Ashwinikumaro! Both of you are also a drinker of Som Rasa located near namuchi rakshasa. You are also a lover of delightful somersa. Indra Dev is an auspicious karma (one who does auspicious work). Please both of you to become the protectors of Indra Dev. (33)
 O agni! You are truthful. There are welfare like nectar for all human beings. You are the swami of light and ajasra. We request you to protect the yagna. 
For that, electricity become female, thundering cloud fan, science cloth, day turban, night hairstyle, rays, coils and stars become gems. (25)
O Brave Indra! You win money in every war. Make the Brahmins who praise you powerful. Men who hurt on the occasion of the happiness of others, they should not be received by you. (7)
The man who does not donate god to the Brahmins who ask for it, including the sages, becomes inferior to the animals while being the seller of his children. (2)
The Indra whom the Stotas know to be free from violence, all the powers and duties of duty are present in the same Indra. 
One who departs from the body while remembering me, the Supreme Personality, and chanting the syllable Om, will attain the supreme goal.
O Sahartu Indra! When war is in place, we ask for the strength of all praises to suit your names. 
 O Indra! You are the one who knows cows 
 O Indra! You also defeat strong enemies by sitting in a chariot decorated with horses. You also destroy their cities. You are the destroyer of demons. You also destroy the evil tendencies of the wicked. 
I am a devotee of the self-light that emerges related to the body. I am coming with my force. The person who gives Indra the power of power, Indra gives him gems etc. (7)
 O agni! O Indra! The host worships and dedicates the worship and worship of both of you gods. Please accept it. Listen to their voice. You are the God of wisdom. You give them the fruits of their hard work. 
I have seen the odd and moving Shuku i.e. black asura roaming near Anshumati. They also live in the sky just like the sun. I am their dependent. May Indra, who showers desires, support you in the war. (8)
Yajna karma should increase minerals, soil, mountains, mountains, sand, banspatis. Increase in gold, iron, bronze, lead and tin through yajna karma. May yajna come to fruition for us. (13)
Purumiddha, the son of Viddesh, has immediately given us a hundred cows and many other properties, just like the king. 
Both Ashwinikumaras had two immortal eye heads as planets. Faster than the roof. Light sirji in the eyes. Wheat hair and loam heads from the feet. The eyes protect both sides (Shukla and Krishna). (89)
His udders are never void of milk and are going to shed a thousand streams of milk. These udders always provide milk. Only Brahma knows these udders. (7)
They fall on the som dashapavittra, with a strong, desireful, greenery, and aloofness and attain Indra. 
 O agni! You protect the host who protects the rules, who follows them. Follow them. You accept our service. Your sharpness should not harm our eyes in any way. 
O agni! You break like a friend on a havya with dry wood. O agni, especially those who see everyone and are rich! Increase our grain and confirmation. 
O serpent named Arbudi! When you eat, the arms of those enemies become inactive. Whatever feelings they have in their mind, they should also be fascinated. The chariot, horse, elephant, etc. army of our enemies are also not left. (13)
Just as they take out food from the cells, in the same way, those who are received by gentlemen, who satisfy the guests, the favorites of all, the beautiful colors and the praiseworthy form, Jupiter Dev removes from the mountains and gives it to those who praise. (3)
The god for whom panchayag is performed is agni dev; The gods for whom the latter three yagyas are performed are Indra Adi Dev; Those who kidnap bali, the swami of directions, all these and those who are gods besides them, I also appoint them to sit near this man who wants long life. (4)
We praise Indra and Agni, who cannot be defeated in war, who deserve praise in wars, and those who protect the five varnas. 
O enemy and great Indra! Come to us soon with your great defense. 
O worthy of yajna and a royal agni! All the hymns perform a quick yagna in your wise agni. Being located in all the three realms of you, take the best human being of human beings to the gods at the high speed of the sun. 
Ashwinikumars found Som from asura Namuchi. Saraswati Devi squeezed Soma for Indra Dev. Som raja is bright and sweet. We drink it. (34)
These clouds were first seen at the time of the creation of the gods. The water came up after the piercing of these clouds by Indra. The three trees, the wind, and the sun cook the trees standing on earth. The wind affecting everyone and the sun rain water that pleases everyone. 
Such is my inferior energy. But beyond it, O mighty-armed Arjun, I have a superior energy. This is the jīva śhakti (the soul energy), which comprises the embodied souls who are the basis of life in this world.
We praise the night and usha devis who are adorned, who increase food, who make the mahati and yajna. 
Oh, god everywhere! I serve you with cow's milk, curd and ghee, those who are deities worthy of yajna, may they meet us with the money of the cow. 
O ashwinikumaro who follows many! Yours is a lot of money. Give us a cow and food that does not go to others and pleases us. O merry-to-be-inspiring Ashvinikumaro! The somras, which is prepared for the purpose of hymns, hymns and your charity, is for you. 
 O agni! When we put food and vegetation in your mouth, at that time your flames are visible like the light of lightning and usha shining at the time of rain. 
The devas whose yajna is completed by the godless and heavenly mon are born after Savita. Shobhan is born before the winged Garuda Savita. That is why garudas are present by holding Savita. 
May the great God protect our chariot with his power, increase our grains and listen to this call of ours. 
At the time of service of agni, the drops of fallen ghee are put in the flames by the Adhwaryu people. Just as the son climbs into the father's lap, so the streams of ghee climb on the agni. 
I have destroyed its disease with a yagna of a thousand eyes, a hundred years of age and a hundred years of age. May Indra take this patient beyond all sins for a hundred years. 
O agni! The supremacy that you have in heaven, the supremacy is in the earth. The book is dominated by medicines and water. It's the sun that expanded the space. He is going to see all human beings. (48)
O agni! You delivered the well-bound Sage Shunashep from the thousands of yupa, because he praised you. It was a wise and knowledgeable agni! Sit on this altar and free us from all bondage. 
In the time before the origin of the gods came the truth from the asat. Directions were then generated. Trees originated from the directions. 
O God of agni! Bring the horses named Rohith, both with good hair, with ropes and dripping ghee, into the front of the yagna and invoke all the gods. O Jativeda Agni! You make the gods to be adorned with yajna. 
Shobhandhan wali Saraswati is pleased and listen to our praise in this yajna. Be a devotee of compassion for your friends by being constantly endowed with saraswati wealth with the gods who kneel down and go near. 
O Indra and Varuna! You struck the distinction that was not subdued by the armaments and protected King Sudas. You heard the praises of my host, the Tritsian sages, and in the war, their priestly deeds were successful. 
 O Mon! You are shining. You get into the dronakalash with a good stream. You are wonderful and great. 
The people who call upon you for their happiness, surely the people who invoke the friend God and Varuna Dev to fulfill their desire, the human beings call upon you to give them. Please fulfill their wishes. (87)
After this, the host of the yagna has inspired the water-like womb in the clouds according to his every yearly rule by wearing the worthy name of the yajna. 
O Indra! This mon has been squeezed to increase your intoxication. You drink it. Plough the horses as your friends in the chariot and leave them after the journey. You sit among the psalms and sing the praises and give food to your stotha. 
O Indra! May you be more pleasing to us through your auspicious defenses. You come to drink Somers in Mon Yag while climbing to space-related paradise. O swami Indra! Come for our welfare. O broad Indra! Your semen i.e. powers are infinite. May you complete us with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and the supreme vyom is the improvement. Install us in that. (10)
Indra is also going to commit violence against the violent. Just as the axe cuts down the forests and the hammer beats the utensils, so in the same way, destroying the demons, Indra comes to the rescue of the devotees who are in front of him and to do the havan-manthan and present before him. 
Some, inspired by knowledge, offer the functions of all their senses and their life energy in the fire of the controlled mind.
While shining with its brightness in heaven, their fast rashamis get pure juice, the upper part of their body, the rashhimis curse heaven. Those who spread light through golden rays, o Rohit Dev, the criminal of those angry gods and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make you staggered attenuated and tie to your loops. (16)
O God! Those who do not know our fasts destroy those who know us. Knowing that lost karma, complete the agni. She goes in front of brahmins with respect to Agni Som. (2)
The south of Varu, the host of man-benevolent and somras, may be received by the person and his sons. We have a hundred and thousands of gross wealth. 
O agni that calls the gods! Knowing the best God in the god group, complete our yajnakarma according to their dignity. 
 O hosts! You water Indra with someras. They drink sweet som rasa. They inspire the money to come to you people by their importance. 
O Somras, the one who mixes somras and is mercifully aschinikumaro! Our sweet juice-soaked praise serves you. When you walk across space, the havya we provide fills you. 
Guests are the beloved or unpleasant guests who send the host to heaven.   (6)
O Indra! You come to our yajna and sit on the seat of Kush. This is your drinkable somers. You drink it happily. You protect him with a good heart. (23)
O agni with food! Give us money. You are friendly to the gods, you are the master of the famous food and the great. You make us happy. 
In the condition and qualities, the best, the worst and the middle class ancestors should also rise. They are the eaters of Pitar Som. They are the non-violent and knower of matter, which is attained by the body targeted by the soul. Let these fathers protect us when called. (44)
Hey Ritvijo! Praise the priests of the mantra for the prayer of the desert, the agni and the visiting friend of the mantra, with such mantras which tell the nature of those gods. 
O Vayu Dev! Make those who hate us or those we hate without a sharp one by yours. (5)
O Vajgan and Rijgan! The form you hold is visible. We have made this psalm worthy of you, you accept it. We recite our prayers to you wise poets and wise gods through the psalms. 
 O Mon! You are knowledgeable. Manishi hosts refine you. You are going to give nutritious food. You flow in your streams. 
I saw the protecting soul moving around in the cycle of birth. I saw him traveling in this world and the hereafter and in the three gunas of Sattva, Raja, Tama. The soul travels in the worlds and senses prevailing in it. (11)
O the deserters! Where are you at this time? When will you come to this yagna? You come here from heaven, do not come from the earth. Just as the singing is rambhati, so the hosts call you here. 
O kushal Ashwinikumaro! Just as the shilpi renews the old chariot, so you made the old age-ridden vandan sage young again. Pleased with the praise of the pregnant Cupid, you brought that genius out of the mother's womb. May your defense be received by the serving host. 
Our enemies who are armor-wearing, armorless and armor-protecting weapons other than armor, O Nyarbudi! Eat carnivorous animals like dogs etc. to those enemies killed by you. (23)
O Indra! Because of the mantra, the horses that join the chariot and have hair should bring you here. Come to this yajna and listen to our praises. 
Just as no one wants to destroy one's body, one should not destroy a bright Brahmin like agni. Som is a Brahmin and Indra fulfills the curse of Brahmin. (6)
O radiant Mon! You have a hundred cows, give us money that nourishes cows and contains riches of adornment. 
O Vajgan and Rijgan! In all the three saawans, the people who give you the drinkable and god-helping soma, gather among such people and become like Manu among the gods with the ultimate divine light, we hold som for your purpose. 
O Varun Dev! Just as the scholars of the world forget to perform the ritual of your fast, we are also tempted every day. 
The best of the inductors and charioteers, The Pusha runs the wheel of the sun's chariot made of gold. 
O Indra! You make the places of earth, heaven and space very sad for the people opposed to gentlemen. O karyati Indra! Burn the demons everywhere with your brightness and heat the earth and the sky to burn those brahmas. 
Do good to The Mahandyava-Prithvi Subandhu. Remove the divine sin of the earth- which creates the udak. O brother! No sin can do you violence while you are in the midst of the earth. 
Salutations to the turbaned man. Salutations to the one who wandered on the mountain. Salutations to the controller of those who lost money. Salutations to Rudra Dev who scared the wicked. Bow to the bow and arrow holder. Salutations to the arrow guard Rudra. Salutations to Rudra, who bowed on the bow. (22)
The deserts hear our call. Indra is the eldest of them and Pusha donates to them. 
O nabhak! Worship Indra and Agni through yajna and praise. In these the whole world is located and in their lap the world and the vast earth hold wealth. These two destroy all the nerves. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come to us with world-keeper wealth. You are rich, brave and unbelievers. 
O sister! You spread out pleasantly like a woollen blanket. The stotas praise you. O bright! Give us money. 
O Indra! You killed the cloud and made the streams flow towards the south direction. You reinforce all the evil things and destroy the enemies. We hold you to the heart. The other men's suffixes could not climb on their bows. (3)
O Guggulu! Let me tell you the names of both types of diseases. I pray to you for the destruction of the present disease that causes sorrow. (3)
I bind your life firmly from the nearest country and from the distant country. You stay here and don't follow your previous ancestors. (1)
O Indra, the master of the workman and the food! Bring to us both your sacheen capable and enemies, and protect this host. Leave those red-colored horses here in the yagna. They eat grass. You eat roasted barley every day. 
I remove from your ears and from the necks of the ears, that is, the pain of the ears and the diffuser (the one who causes special pain). In this way, I remove all diseases related to your head. (2)
O glorious agni! Your path of movement is black, it moves ahead of you and your movement is the best of the bright costumes. The host does not find you and keeps the causal wood in your origin. After this, you are born soon and become the messenger of the host. 
O pure Indra! You give us the money. O pure Indra! You give the gemstone to the havandata host. You are clean and kill the enemies and desire to give food. 
Fire, the lord of the selectable wealth, give food to our friends. We ask for a lot of money for our son and grandson from the agni, who gives the dwelling place and follows the organs. 
O God of agni who sees human beings! Demons should not destroy the conception, delivery etc. of our cows in the year and do not drink their milk. One of those demons who wants to satisfy themselves with the nectar of Havi and cow ghee, chastise that demon with your flame and turn away. (17)
O hosts! Please offer holy ghee in the well-lit omniscient agni from the samidhas. (2)
O Indra, the one of truth and the doomshak! You have defeated Dyava-Prithvivi. You are the enhancer of the somras squeezer and the master of heaven. 
May this man get life, eyes and strength. I have enriched the body of this prana through mantra power. Let him stand on his feet. (13)
Just as a person who wants to go for annalabh adds horses to the chariot, so I speak the mantra of praise from the desire for annalabh. I am engaged in the worship of indra, the same hero, the daanpatra, the best of the rich and the destroyer of the asuranagaras. 
Indra installed the sun in the sky so that everyone could see him. They are the ones who penetrate the clouds in the form of Indra Sun. (6)
The happy and destructive ila, saraswati and the goddesses of mahi sat on the kushas. 
The yagyakas and the hosts of the virtuous voice worship Indra, the vajradhari, those who sit on the chariot, those who accept many yagnas and give the power to perform many yajnas. He challenges the enemy by attaining host pleasures. 
When the deer enters the field and eats barley (grain), the farmers are not happy with the strength of the deer, but are saddened by their loss. Similarly, if a Shudra gets knowledge from Aryajan, then her husband does not believe in the nurturing of knowledge from her knowledge. (31)
O Jupiter! Let us be masters of wealth endowed with beautiful and heroic children. We worship those Jupiters with hugs and salutations. (6)
O goddess named Permission! Get me the money that is full of sons, grandsons, etc. and never-ending. Let us not be the subject of your anger. Let us live in the happiness-giving and gracious intellect of this permission goddess. (3)
Hey Mon! Give us from all around the rich earth surrounded by all four seas. You fulfill our thousands of desires. 
O agni! You are a beautiful winged garuda form. Please be installed on the earth's surface. You complete the space with your kanti. May you give excellence to heaven with your light. You should give beauty and excellence to the directions with your speed. (72)
Within the body also resides the Supreme Lord. He is said to be the witness, the permitter, the supporter, transcendental enjoyer, the ultimate controller, and the Paramātmā (Supreme Soul).
The rays of strong agni are transmitted everywhere, so you destroy our sins. (5)
Oh, Usha! You are full of gau, ashwa, satyabhasan and tej. Today, publish our yajna and contain wealth. 
Moon was nascent from the mind of the supreme being, sun from the eyes, Indra and agni from the mouth and air from the breath. 
O Madhu Lata! I am sweeter than the honey you produce. I am sweeter than a honey-dripping substance. You must only receive Me in the same way as people reach the branch of honey. (4)
O Indra! At the time you hold the sun of bright light in the dolok, you bind the whole world in the rules. 
O night! Take away from us the wolf, the wolf's wife and the thief. Be especially pleasing to us. 
I call the beautiful night and Usha to this yagna to sit on the scattered kushas. 
Those who adorn their bodies like women for the sake of passage, Gamansheel, the son of Rudra, Shobhan Karma due to the growth of the earth and the sky, the ones who drive away the enemies and break the tree, the Marudgana, who breaks the tree, are pleased because of the sompan in the yajna. 
Do not meditate on the path of those who have gone to the fatherland and do not cry for the dead ancestors. The dead will also take you away from here to the country. You are giving up darkness and are situated in the light. We hold your hands to take you from darkness to light. (8)
Oh, God! The man who grows his house, who gives you the opportunity to get the wealth you have. He increases the grain, increases the people and grows uninterrupted because of your sacrificial work. 
O Indra with the maruts! Just as you drank someras in the yajna of King Shariat, drink in this yajna also. Oh, Shur! The wise men who perform shobhan yajna in your unhindered abode serve you by giving you a greeting. 
 O Indra! You are the benefactor of the hosts, the swami of food and strength, the enemy, the swami of yajna, the power hero and the omniscient. We worship you. 
Hey Mon! Ten fingers serve you. Seven would have pleased you. The brilliant hymns will impress you. 
O Indra! Be sure of us today and on other days and come near to us and make us happy. Let us be the masters of the cows by these kinds of praises and remain in the glorious happiness you have bestowed on us. 
O leafy queen! Present all those who are capable of making kings, the secretaries capable of making kings, the yarn that drives the chariots and the head of the village, all around me to serve me. (7)
Usha, the daughter of heaven and the owner of wealth, has to know everything. Everyone sees Usha who is doing morning. Usha is riding on an Annayukta chariot and well connected horses carry this chariot. 
O indra, the faithful, the protector, the all-seer, the preacher and the somayaji who gives happiness to the people! You give food to friends, fathers, babas, hosts who make fathers and desire heaven. 
Oh, this desireful Indra! We who wish you more praise you. O Lord Indra! You will know our praise soon. 
 O agni! You throw the deceitful enemy too far away. You are the sustainer of truth. Make the path of peace easier for us. 
O brother! We call back the mind that your mind has gone to a distant land and future place. You live to inhabit this world. 
May these herbs rescue us from the sin committed against the gods, from the sin of naming the fathers, from the sin of insulting and abusing us through the mantra strength of the Brahmins and the penance of the sages. (12)
We ask Indra for money from Indra, including many sons and grandsons, many servants, with diverse animals, perennial, non-perishable and comforting. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! You give us that wealth for our happiness. 
O you are bright and pure, Mon! You give us the collected, the rich and the unholy grain. That food is received in all the three sutures without hindrance. He is a wordy, powerful, sweet and beautiful child-giver. 
Happiness is said to be in the mode of passion when it is derived from the contact of the senses with their objects. Such happiness is like nectar at first but poison at the end.
O milk! You spread disharmony among the enemies and fill their hearts with hatred towards each other, we want to spread a sense of malice among our enemies. You despise them and finish them. (1)
Young sons and calves with cows should come to this school. Dripping honey and curd urns should also come to this school. (7)
O enemy Indra! At the time when you scattered the lifeless and destructionless waters of all beings held up by the Vrithra Asura in the directions stretched out of the sky, at that time you, pleased with the Sompan, killed Vritra in the battle and turned the entire cloud out of the water to rain down. 
O king willing to conquer! I cover your places with armor. May Soma Raja cover you with his imperishable glory. May Varun Dev give more happiness to you. May all gods like Indra and other enemies frighten the enemy army and make you happy. (1)
 Indra is present at the yajna site to offer the food of Havi offered by the host. They are the guardians and wise men of all gods 
The food I eat while dreaming is not visible in the morning. That food is not visible even during the day. May all the food eaten in the dream be good for me. (1)
I call indra form surya, who has the radiance that suppresses others, the conqueror of the enemies, the conqueror of heaven, the conqueror of the animals of the enemies, the cow etc. and the conqueror of the waters. By the grace of that Indra, I should become the beloved of children etc. (2)
The stones become dynamic and squeeze the somras. They squeeze the somras to water the agni, wishing for praise. People who squeeze the somras cleanse their mouths by drinking the rest of the somras. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Have the same love for us as parents have for the Son. Be as bright as agni and sun, and as fast as a king. Be you like a rich man who does good to others and give yoga like suryakirans and come to this yagna like a happy person. 
Go with the jaw of ten months' gestation. Just as this air goes, as it goes to the sea, so you were born with ten months of old age. (28)
O Maruto of real power! You eliminate the fussy monsters by revealing your bright significance. 
O King Mon! Let not the wisdom of the gods enter your dwelling place. You remove the enemies. Kill the somras drinkers, the violent. 
Broken teeth at the time of hug and Rome is in the lake. (6)
The dyava-prithvis should work together with all the countries to protect the power of Indra from the unison. When Indra gained his importance while doing acts of bravery, indra, the somras drinker and the karmakarma, grew up. 
Hey, it was! Speak hymns made by the great and forefathers for the purpose of agni, those who wear the brightness of the meritorious, those who call the vidhata devas of the world. 
The sages named Vrishagana, persecuted by the enemies, go to the yajnashala, aiming at the sharp-hit and the enemy-destroyer Soma, afraid of enemies. Som's friend Stota sings with the hawks to Mon, accessible to everyone, unbearable and pierced by the enemies. 
 O agni! You convey this desire of ours to the gods. We are praying to you in Gayatri verses. You convey these two things to the gods. 
O agni! Your stothas are spread all over the place. They were sad before, now they are happy. The evil we used to call those who behaved in simple ways, our enemy himself was destroyed. 
Divine water! Your wavy flow increases the power of the senses. Your wavy flow is delightful. Dedicate that water to gods and protectors. Dedicate it to increasing semen, you also have a part in this. Thank you for all this. (27)
He is the seer of all the real and movable subjects and the witness of all. (11)
O Hundred and Indra! Come close to us from a near and far country. O Vajradhari Indra! Whatever your world is, come from there to drink Someras in this Dev Karma i.e. Yagya. (4)
While contemplating on the objects of the senses, one develops attachment to them. Attachment leads to desire, and from desire arises anger.
O earth! While sleeping, I turn or sleep straight, no one should violence me at that time. (34)
Indra is praiseworthy, gentle, brilliant, strong and pleasing to others. (2)
O ever-new Indra! On the occasion of getting food, we wish to protect you and call you. You come close to us to conquer us, don't go towards our opponents. Just as the king calls the warriors with the desire of victory, so we call you. (1)
O aschinikumaro! Know our praise and go to the yajna by the ashwa. All the stotas call you. They give you milk mixed and intoxicating somras like friends. The sun rises ahead of Usha. 
O praiseworthy, blessed with the best thunderbolt, the unsung and important Indra! Prajapati, who gave birth to you, considered himself to be the best son. This karma of Prajapati, who gave birth to Indra, was very good. 
O patient! Today, to resist the arrow that Rudra Dev has thrown on his bow to pierce your hands, feet and heart, today I throw that arrow away from the body to turn it away from you. (1)
Those who fickle the still trees, etc., who defeat everyone with their power, are terrible as an animal, who pervade the whole world with their own force, are as bright as agni and the deserts with water, who scatter the swirling clouds and rain water. 
Brahm, Prajapati with sachchidananda symptoms, Brahma with four faces, seven worlds, four Vedas with organs, seven sages and three agnis should give me peace. All this has given me swastya Yemen i.e. peace. May Indra and Brahma give me happiness. May Vishwe Dev give me happiness and May Vishwe Dev give me happiness. (12)
Killing innocent is a terrible act. Don't kill our cows, horses, and men. Where you have been established, we remove you from there. You become lighter than the leaf. (29)
O King Soma, who has good deeds and to give money! The hawk bird brought you from heaven. 
Hey Ritvijo! Say the word Swaha to give a havya to Indra, who holds the body of Pusha, Marudgana, Vishvedeva, Vayu and Gayatri. 
 Those who do Somyagya are blessed by devgan. They don't love only dreamers. Only those who work hard can achieve a blissful Som. 
Gautam Rishi, who is desirous of wealth, serves the Agni by the stotra, we also praise the same agni again and again with the quality hymns. 
All the people speak this happy hymn again and again, great, by creating a churning in the yajna and by aiming at the agni that is praiseworthy by all. Let us listen to this hymn by being skilled in suppressing the agni enemies, fast-paced and constantly meeting the divine. 
When the fast of Savita in the sky is over, i.e., when the sun is hidden, the warrior who wants to jai also returns after departing, all the char beings start wishing for the house and the person who is constantly engaged in the work also goes home leaving the work incomplete. 
 O Indra! You are the sustainer of ashchas. Please come to the yagna to listen to our Brahmastutis. You wear our gifted havi. 
O agnis of holy gods! Praise all the gods when you are cleansed. Crossing the sins from the verses of rigveda, we should be happy with the son for a hundred hemantas. (28)
 O host! You add curd to somers. Make this Someras holy with namaskar. After that you offer this someras to Indra to drink. 
From their mere arrival, the ushas who gave money, for the sake of yajna and who gave the sattva fruits, were born first in the form of welfare. The yajnakars used to gain money immediately by praising those ushas through mantras and praising them with verses. 
Indra's anger had sent water to the sea at the time when he made a sound of the vritra being cut into pieces. 
The elaborate dyau, the vast word, the expanded space, the expanded dyau and the praiseworthy and eternal earth greet the agni of yajna. The holy spirits are born Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Savita and Bhagadeva. 
Fire! You are omniscient, respected and enlightened like Aditi Dev among the gods, worthy of yajna, guest for human beings. You should convey our desire to the gods and give us full happiness. (16)
O earth! The beings who are born on you travel over you. For the four-legged animals and two-legged humans you nurture, the sun spreads the nectar light throughout its rays throughout its rays. (15)
 The sun is a poet who benefits thousands of human beings, is observable, luminous and dark-eyed. They send Usha. In front of their light, the brightness of the moon and other constellations seems to fade. 
The well cultured rasa containing Soma is drinkable for Indra who goes to the Yagya. The path of Indra who comes to our yajna widens. He is the lord of the rain that falls on the earth. Indra, the benefactor of milch cows, who showers water and the leader of the yajna, is worthy of praise by attending our yagya. 
Urvashi said, "What will happen with only things? Like the previous ushas, I have gone from you. O puruva! You go back to your house. I am as ill-fated as the wind." 
This dhenu is full of truth, wealth and fame. (2)
Swaha for yajna. Swaha for Varun Dev. Swaha for the best Kshatriya. Swaha for medicines. The cow with a huge bull, the very chichada verses, the senses, please hold strength and age for us. (22)
O men! Be alert in the nation of the sun, attaining friendly hair and growth through the work that you feed the creatures of space through which you feed the creatures of space, which you have, which are yours, the crops, creepers, etc. that are flowing, climbing and climbing. (9)
O ghost! The meaning that humans pick up. Go from him to the path of Yama. Your former men have gone through this path. There are both Varuna and Yama who perform actions like agni among the gods. They are happy with the desires given by us. In this world, you will see Yama and Varuna. (54)
We know Varuna, the father of the arrow, endowed with hundreds of strengths. O patient man! With this arrow, I remove your urinary diseases. The urine that is stuck in your stomach comes out and falls on the earth. (3)
The friend who has defeated the space with his glory, the same rich man has made the earth well full with food. 
O Indra! You are the master of cultured somersa and human beings. (3)
O Indra! You sit on this chariot made of gold. By your grace, let us also climb that heaven, which is full of beautiful words and has thousands of paths. (13)
He got up and started walking towards north direction. (21)
Indra had made the sun's fast-moving chariot motionless fighting with the sage Etash in the battle. For the welfare of Etash, Indra had earlier snatched a wheel of the chariot of the Sun. From this Indra destroys the asuras. 
As soon as he sees Indra's vajra, the stota bows to him. O stotao! Along with the ancestors named Rikva, the threat of this thunderbolt should not disturb your ears. (3)
We call Indra, who has great mantras, stretches out arms and strives well to protect the people. 
The hosts who have offered dynamic food to the Vasus and who have spoken praises to the friend Varuna, may they receive great glory. Oh, God! You give them the best pleasures. May we be happy to protect the earth and the sky. 
Let the vegetation, sun and cows be pleasant for us. 
O mighty Mon! You seep like the power of the maruts. You flow unobstructedly like the people of heaven and deliver us as soon as water. O Mon with many forms! You deserve the same yagna as Indra, who conquered the army. 
Medicines are obtained from heaven. The organism that properly manages them never dies prematurely. (91)
When one is neither attached to sense objects nor to actions, that person is said to be elevated in the science of Yog, for having renounced all desires for the fruits of actions.
Out of the two men who fight among themselves for the house with servants and maids, they get the same wealth, which Ritwiju performs for indra's sake. 
O Brahmaspati, the regulator of the world! Know this sukta and protect our children.  The one whom the gods protect receives all the welfare. We will receive shobhan sons and grandsons and speak many praises in this yajna. 
How can we praise the great Rudra, the sage of Atrigotra? What praise should we speak to get wealth from the omniscient God? Protect us the mountains whose hair is water, herbs, ghee, forests and trees. 
O Maruto! You bring collectable money from far away. You separate the enemies from a distance by acquiring consumable wealth. 
The holding power of both our hands with the same form is not the same. Cows originating from the same mother do not give equal milk. The valour of the twin brothers is not the same. Two people born in one family do not donate equally. 
They go to the character i.e. Drona Kalash made of som wood, full of desire, word-making and holding with ten fingers. 
O agni! You are a golden light and a good mind. Please come to us with the Golden Light and illuminate our lives. (46)
O foolless, comprehensive and wishful friend and Varuna! There is no wonder and respect in your praises. That is, your praises are true. Your enemies accept the false praise of the people. Do not be for ignorance even though the hymns made to you are mysterious. 
Usha, the master of wealth, walks as the wife of the sun, destroying the darkness spread like a cloth. Usha, producing her own brightness, with good deeds like adornment and wealth and agnihotra, is illuminated to the end of the sky and the earth. 
 Just as the knight uses force, Soma gives his money. They are powerful, powerful and glorious. 
The holders of the yajna-related deeds, those with a flame-like hairstyle, acceptable to all, sanctifying and adorning the yagnas are burnt respectively at the beginning of the agni yajna and are irrigated with ghee to perform the devyagna. 
You believe you don't know that. Therefore, I reply to Maya, that is, to you, that the Supreme Personality of Godhead in the five Mahabhutas and the five Tanmatras. Five Mahabhuta B Tanmatras are offered to the Supreme Personality of Godhead. (52)
 O Indra! You are our father and mother. We, your son, want good happiness from you with a good heart. You are a centurion. 
O God of Agni! May all the gods take all kinds of objections to our enemies, due to which our enemies suffer humiliation by not getting the sacrifice received by the human diseases and gentlemen. (11)
O aschinikumaro! You gave a mighty horse with ninety-nine horses to King Pedu. The horse was about to conquer the enemies and drive away the enemies' friends. He was as inviting to humans, pleasant and as palatable as wealth. 
O Lord Indra! Expand our grains and extend your strength and bow to your enemies. Expand your body by growing up to suit us and not being defeated by your enemies. 
Its left eye is the moon. (2)
Som shouts the high position of The Hulloka wordfully and holds the dyava-prithvi with his power. Som knows indra's friendship and is located in dronakalshas. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You extinguished the fire with cold water, which was lit by the asuras to torment them. You gave them a strong ksheer with food grains. Atri was hanging from the bottom of the gymnasium, you rescued them along with their companions. 
Mountains also tremble as the wind moves. Just as the horse leads to war, so the mountains come towards the wind. The wind rides on a chariot with horses and becomes the lord of this sakal bhuvana. 
Or, together with the revered gods and goddesses of the whole world, let us move forward our said chariot with love. Ida, the most glorious Bhaga, the earth sky, the most intelligent Pusha and Surya's husband Ashwini Kumar, drive our chariot. 
The school which is made of two chambers, four chambers, six chambers, eight chambers and ten chambers, I sleep in that school in the same way as gastritis are present in the womb. (21)
Indra is able to give heaven to the sacrificing hosts because of his importance. The earth and the sky are not enough for their transmission. Just as the bull holds horns, so does Indra, the lord of the grain, hold heaven. Just as the sky surrounds the earth, so Indra encompasses the three realms. 
The praises that come out of the mind go all the way in the characters, praising the Som, who is blessed and adorned by the gods. The intoxicating juices fall from the sky to the Dronakalash with som water. The enemies inspire the selfless Som Vani who snatches the money of the enemies and is without death. 
The air like the mother, the earth like the father, the sky and the stones of the soma crush should bring us the soothing medicine. O wise Ashwinikumaro! Listen to our prayers. 
O you indomitable Indra! We call you by affirming you by somers, with the desire to be protected, as if someone calls upon a virtuous man. You take different forms in the struggle. 
O age-loving man! We call back your life. We inspire the restrictive tuberculosis of your age to retreat. May agni dev give this host a hundred years of age in all ways while performing varenya and havan. (6)
The earth and the sky are vast, habitable, great and producing the culture, etc. I call them to the yagna for the pleasure of the gods. These are peculiar in appearance and water retention. O earth and sky! Save us from sin. 
Oh, Usha! Give us money with cows, heroes and horses. You give us a lot of grain. Don't condemn our yajna among you men. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
Oh patient! I drive away the contaminated disease of tuberculosis from the nerves, veins, joints of bones, hands and shoulders of your neck. 
O Adhwaryujano! Indra is the king of wealth living in heaven, earth and sky. Just as you fill the hut with barley, in the same way, complete Indra with someras. This work should have been done by you. 
Yama's statement - I am your friend born from your son i.e. one stomach. But I do not wish to be friends with brother and sister. You are born from one stomach and wish to be my wife. I do not accept such friendship, marudgans, sons of Mahabali Rudra, who suppress enemies, will also condemn it. (2)
O dundubi! With your word, you increase our force by defeating the enemy's army i.e. chariots, horses, elephants and foot soldiers. Remove the causes of defeat and the sorrows given by the enemies, make such a hearing harsh words, which will break the hearts of the enemies. You drive away the army of enemies from this battlefield. You are as destructive as an enemy as indra dev's fist, so you are crooked. (2)
O agni! If I become as rich as you and you become as poor as I am, then your blessings be true. 
We praise Indra for coming here like our friend and worthy of praise. This Indra provides the fruits of all karma. (1)
O agni set by the lord! The godless without death have also described your glory. When the human people came to you to ask who destroys the asuras with the gods, you along with the leaders of all and the gods you have increased, you conquered the obstacles. 
The words “Om Tat Sat” have been declared as symbolic representations of the Supreme Absolute Truth, from the beginning of creation. From them came the priests, scriptures, and sacrifice.
He is a wishy Mon! You come up to Dronaphalash as a stream and be pleasing to Indra. You give all the money by your power to the psalms. 
O father! Salutations to your gross deeds. O father! Salutations to the cruel deeds of yours. (83)
 O Mon! You are like a king, with good fasting, extraordinary and holy mind. Please listen and accept the voice of the host. 
That supreme power is going to keep an eye on the whole world. That supreme power is everywhere. That supreme power is everywhere. That supreme power is everywhere. That supreme power created heaven without a basis by the ability of its power. God is one. (19)
O blessed and non-violent Maruto! Protect our boat day and night, by your observance we will gather. 
O Mon! We all cut the crop full of barley very carefully. We offer you the seat of Kush full of mercy. Please come here and eat. These hosts are sitting on the seat of Kush and performing yagna for you with namaskar. (38)
O people who want harmony! You become of the same knowledge and engage in the same work. Your conscience should be the same for the creation of knowledge. Just as Indra Adi Dev, knowing the same task, accepts the havi given by the hosts, in the same way, you should also give up opposition and get the desired results. (1)
When the rainy protects the earth from the rain water, the winds blow loudly, lightnings fall, the herbs rise and the sky begins to drip. At that time, the earth becomes good for the whole world. 
O agni! Please take all the money with you. Please water us from the stream of joy in the world. 
The soul is spoken of as invisible, inconceivable, and unchangeable. Knowing this, you should not grieve for the body.
Agni is friendly to the flowing water like a well-wishing brother to his sister. Agni devours the forest like the destroyer king of the enemy. When the fire induced by wind burns the forests, at that time all the vegetation ends and the diseases of the earth. 
O agni! You make us energetic. Please make us prosperous and prosperous again and again. Please save yourself from sin again and again. (9)
I add ghee to the fresh milk of the first-born cow and add strength and water to the ghee. My sons, grandsons, etc. should be strong with ghee and become strong. For this reason, sing near me. (4)
O ladies of the door! You are a means of moving happily. You separate and complete the yajna for the sake of protecting us. 
The host's, the people who lift the havanpatra sit in the vast and bright altar of the earth. Just as the worldly people massage a born child for his body growth, so the agni produced is nourished by praises. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The white-colored Usha goes everywhere spreading the light. Your defenses stay with us. 
The sun adds seven horses with golden skin and green color to his chariot for his maya. They leave those horses and go to their world, destroying darkness. (8)
The God of God has made four ornaments for his feet and four flowers to wear on the body. He has made a wearable kardhani in the waist. By wearing these ornaments, this woman became the best auspicious. (60)
When the gods entering the beautiful cow are happy, then the woman becomes full of truth like seeing the eyes. (4)
O Indra, worthy of service by eulogies and who kills Vritrasura! Be happy with the praises made in our three savanas. (4)
O long-handed Ashwinikumaro! The ultimate wise sage wife Vadrimati had repeatedly called you the fruit-givers in her revered hymn. You heard his call as a disciple and gave him a son named Hiranyahasta. 
Oh, husband! I have put this powerful herb with the help of your pillow in your head. Just as the cow runs to the calf and the water moves downwards, so let your mind come near to me. 
O Gods! You are the one who penetrates the destroyers of cows, those who know the cows, those with vajra-like arms and the conquerors. They are the destroyers of enemies. You should encourage Indra to be worthy of heroes, you should also follow him yourself. We are indra dev's friends. (38)
O aschinikumaro who sustains! When you meet at one place, your chariot crosses seven rivers. Your horses with adornment and divine power pull your chariot fast and never get tired. 
O being mixed up by the ritwijas, the fiercest as the lion and the faster than the mind! You do the same words as a horse. You give us the happiness of the mind by the very simple paths. 
O hosts! I praise your beloved, the guest and the rich agni like a chariot. 
O Indra who donates more! Give us a lot of money. Don't give a little. You want to give us a lot of money. 
 O Mon! You are pure and succulent. You make us Goans, Goldens, Horses and Sons. You make us grandchildren. 
O God! You are clingy. Please make us strong. We can see all beings with friendship . All beings can see us with friends. (18)
The true yogis, uniting their consciousness with God, see with equal eye, all living beings in God and God in all living beings.
O Indra, who is friendly to the riches! You suffer our enemies by filling them with bull-like anger in a war that is anti-enemy. Be our protector in the world war for money. Let us get children, water and sunshine. 
This is the hymn! Praise the great, powerful, advanced and supremely beneficial Indra for giving me the animal. You do many praises for Indra worthy of praise. Indra give a lot of money for our sons. 
Hey on! Tvashta Dev gave birth to a woman and Tvashta has made you the husband of this woman. May Tvashta Dev give a long life of thousands of years to both of you i.e. husband and wife. (3)
Therefore, one who has restrained the senses from their objects, O mighty armed Arjun, is firmly established in transcendental knowledge.
The agnis which are located on the earth in many ways, grow in front of the vast earth and move around at will like an animal without keepers, they taste all the things well, burning the bright agni wet trees, devouring the thorns. 
May the sun fit for habitation and moving everywhere please us. Let the air that pours water make us happy. May Indra and Cloud increase us. Thus may Vishvedeva provide us with enough food 
This visible world is distinguished in the formless Brahman. In this visible world, five elements like earth etc. are distinguished. O broad sun! Your own powers are of many kinds. May you complete us with animals of all forms of cow, ashcha etc. and establish us in the sudha that is located in the supreme vyom. (19)
O gods of the best knowledge! Separate sinners who come to us again and again from us for our lives. 
O omniscient Ashwinikumaro! Sit on the kushas laid in the form of three layers and wish to perfect this yajna with sweet juice. The son of the bright kanva are calling you by squeezing somers. 
May there be an increase in the power of the immense power given by us to indra's purpose, the well-present and the force that defeats thousands. O Indra! After the growth of that havi, extend the host who gives me to the eternal vision and superiority. (1)
O agni! You also wish to do the messenger of the host in whose yajna you accept the work of carrying the havan. 
What you invite for food is a call to accept havi. (13)
~ May Dhata Dev, the guardian of all means and the guardian of the world, provide wealth for us. May he, Dhata Dev, complete and enrich us. (1)
O green and pure mon! When we praise you, you come to give us money. Your intoxicating juices go to Indra to inspire sangram. Sit on the chariot of the gods and come before us and protect us by means of welfare. 
Mon move extremely quickly. Others can't follow the mon who is admired and effortlessly played by many. The sharper sharp mons light up more. The current mons in space appear green in the day and lighted at night. 
All those who take refuge in me, whatever their birth, race, sex, or caste, even those whom society scorns, will attain the supreme destination.
Time has created a world of buildings. It is with the inspiration of time that the sun illuminates the world. All beings remain present in time. The eyes etc. senses do their work. (6)
O Indra! Those who praise you call you in the yajna related to the attainment of food. You are the protector of gentlemen and the one who inspires the waters. (1)
 O Mon! You are shined by the sun's rays. You are kept in the sacred and worthy. You are gifted to Indra and Vayu. 
Prosperity, Oz, Akuti i.e. the resolution of the fruit of the mind, the glory of the Kshatriya, the nation, the six earths, samvatsar, the goddess named Ida, the inspiring mantras of the Ritvijas in yagya karmas, the house and the havi are all located in the Yagya Sheshrupi Brahma. (18)
Today, may all the deserts protect us in every way and may all the agnis be ignited. May all gods come to protect us and may we receive all kinds of food and property. 
 O agni! You are the sustainer of truth 
O Purana being the famous Indra! Eat our purodas in this morning yajna. This will make your work great. 
O mighty Indra! Although you are pleased with the distant Somras, be pleased with it when our somras go away. 
O agni! Bring before us the knower of performing yajna, the makers of hymns and mantras and those who have attained divinity in order and those who are thirsty for the father. They are the fathers special acquaintances, free of contention, those who sit in the yagna and receive the havan. 
The visible brightness of the demonic fire is possessed by all people for the firmness of the body, because it is produced by force. That's the truth. It is famous that by resorting to the same speed, my intellect works and proves its favor. It is only the brightness of the yajnashak agni that everyone gets praise. 
Those who destroy poison, they cause destruction. (3)
Both night and day, shobhan serves the agni like women and comes and stays nearby like a roaring cows. The agni which is satiated by Rituzhavya, which is located in the southern part of the invoicing agni, becomes the master of all forces. 
 O Indra! You are like a strong, omnipotent and beautiful bird. You do what you decide. You give the glory you get powerfully to your worshippers. 
Anger also heats up iron. For the peace of anger, one should appoint a person who considers the world to be useless. Yogis should be appointed for yoga. A consolation worker should be appointed for the bereavement. A liberator should be appointed for protection, a skilled person who is high in height for ups and downs, a person who behaves accordingly for the body, an eye cleanser for decency. Accumulation policy for adversity should be appointed as a member of The Asuya (without jealousy) for Yemeniam etc. (14)
"O God! If you eat from the eyes of the sages on whose side the previous rituals ate this odan, you will be blind," the Guru said to his disciple. The disciples should say that I have not eaten this odan in front of me, nor have I eaten in front of me, nor have I eaten it in front of the soul. I have eaten this odan from the eyes of the sun and the moon. I have eaten it through them and delivered it where it should reach. This odan is full of all organs, with all joints and a whole body. The one who knows how to eat this odan in this form is full of all the organs, with all the joints and the whole body. (3)
O Indra and Agni! You have both combined your two welfare names. O you, you are afraid! You were together in the circle. O kamayars! You sit together and place the mon in your stomach. 
O agni! Why do you condemn us near Varun and Savita? What crime have we had? Why did you tell the workfriends, the earth, the aryama and the lord, our sins? 
The host who gives Indra a sorodash and somras mixed with cow's milk, it is certain that Indra saves him from sin. 
O awakening and dear Mon! You drip on the dasha-pita made of sheep's hair while you're sorting. Lum is the leader of the meritorious and fathers. You fill our yajna with your sweet juice. 
This speech-like cow i.e. poetic language is divided into verses with one, two, four, eight or nine feet. Thus, the dignity of this language is up to a thousand letters. It seems that it is the completer of all bhuvanas and various juices of poetry drip from it. (42)
Sarma said, "This is a panio! I don't know those Indra's losers. They destroy everyone. Even deep rivers can't stop them. They will kill you and put you to sleep on earth." 
O sun! It is famous for those who perform yajna or praise that indra gives money. Indra is going to rain desired fruits. Their deeds are beneficial to human beings. You rise by keeping in mind the work of removing evils and suppressing enemies. (1)
The Blessed Lord said: O sinless one, the two paths leading to enlightenment were previously explained by me: the path of knowledge, for those inclined toward contemplation, and the path of work for those inclined toward action.
O Indra and Agni! While wishing for wealth, I consider you like a jati or a brother. My best wisdom is given to none other than you. With that wisdom I have praised you with indifference and attentiveness. 
Indra has captured and expanded the asura-afflicted earth, killed the enemies with the vajj and poured out rainwater, killed the present cloud in space, separated the Rohin asura and eliminated the bahu-less vratra with his sheerity. 
The yajnabhilagis, embellished by hosts and mashed with both hands, are snagged on the dashapavitra made of som sheep's hair. 
Indra is the beauty of the world. 
Please tell me who walks alone? Who is born again and again? What is cold medicine? Which area is the largest to sow seeds? (9)
 O hosts! Indra is the first deity. They reside in the abode of the gods in the sky. They protect us well. They give us laurels. They are asura winners. We call upon them. 
Devjan is its anus, human intestines and food stomach. (16)
O agni! You are a worthy of praise in front of you. You are the lord of the famous wealth and grain everywhere. You are bright and burn the wood slowly to remove the darkness. You are the one who gives special education of yajna and expands the fruit. 
The king who does not control the senses and the self-respecting king who eats the cow of the Brahmin, that sinful king does not survive. (2)
O agni! Do not crook this means of eating. This chamcha is going to please the gods and humans and the characters of Someras. The gods drink nectar through this chamas. All the gods like Indra etc. without death are happy with this spoon. All the gods are happy due to the delicious taste in this spoon made by Atharva Rishi. (53)
Oh patient! I remove tuberculosis from all parts of your body such as urinary bladder, hair, nails, etc. 
The tongue moves forward and forth with the ten fingers of the hand as well as the word. I touch you with my curative hands. 
The names of the cows which are of the same form, of different forms and of one form, are known because of the agni yajna. The Angiragotrian sages have made cows on earth through penance. O perspiration! Give those cows pleasure. 
O men! The two opposing armies, both superior and lower, and the people sitting on two chariots of the same type, are the ones whom they call to help them, that is Indra. 
While being pure, the radiant, very true form and King Som falls as a stream in Dronakalash. Inspired and extremely truthful, Som flows to protect friends and Varuna. 
O agni that fills the ritvians! You are ours. You are called by infertile cows, bulls and pregnant cows. 
O sun! You are equipped with light suited to all. You rise today and go up in the high sky and destroy my heart disease and my body disease called Harimana. 
Just as air makes water angry with power, so the powerful Indra, by his power, completes the sky with its brightness and shatters the water. Indra, who desires power, cuts off the wings of the mountains. 
May Savita Dev, who creates everyone, meet you in this yagna. Be beautiful for them. (2)
O million! You are the way to heal the wounds of those who have been hurt with a stick and those who are injured with sharp weapons, so you made this man woundless. (4)
O Indra! Come quickly and go to the yagna. Be pleased with the somras mixed with cow's milk there. Enhance the yajna performed by lum ancestors in the same way as I know it. 
Hey Ritvijo! These are going to fulfill Indra's happiness. Inspire them, play with them and enjoy them. You do this to get food. O obstacles Ritvizzo! Call Aditiputra Indra to drink somras for the purpose of protecting him. 
O Indra who drinks somers! You are all friends and thunderbolts. We are your friends and somaan doers. You grow our long-nosed cows. 
Being pure and admired by the stoyas, Mon! You come to destroy your enemies in the same way that a man goes to his beloved. Just as the flying bird sits on the forest trees, so the somas are located in the kalash. 
This altar is the end of the earth and this yajna is the place of origin of the world. This is the semen of the horse that rained the Somras and is the last place of the Brahma Vanis. 
Four kinds of people do not surrender unto me—those ignorant of knowledge, those who lazily follow their lower nature though capable of knowing me, those with deluded intellect, and those with a demoniac nature.
O Cow! May your love for these yajna performers remain. This offering filled with ghee is dedicated to you. You take it patiently for yourself, hold water for mother earth who holds the world and shower that water for them. You keep nutritious money for us. Good luck to you. (51)
Plough produces other farming work. He produces food from His works by walking on the paths. Just as the one who speaks the mantra is superior to the one who does not speak the mantra, so the one who gives the donation is better than the one who does not give the giver. 
May the agni that sanctifies all emotions sanctify me. I do not repay the debts of the debts and the promises I have made to perform yagna and the hope I instill in the gods. I plead for cosmic pleasures from my mind. I remove the sin in this kind of untrue speech. (3)
May this jangid mani protect me from the fear of Dulok i.e. heaven, from the fear of the earth, from the fear of the demons of space, etc., and from the fear of trees. This jangid mani saved me from the creatures of the past and from the creatures that will happen in the future. Let jangid mani protect us from fears in all directions. (4)
When the four Varnas and Nishads praise Indra along with the people, Swami Indra kills the enemies with his glory and becomes the object of respect for the meritorious. 
When one receives one's wealth destroyed in ancient times, soma inspires him to perform yajna and attains a long life. 
They are the best of sun gods and deeds. He has stabilized the earth and the sky, which give all kinds of pleasures to the beings, by dividing them both by the desire of creation and adornment karma, by strong pegs. 
O Savita Dev! You have good fortune for the gods and goddesses. Please inspire our intellect too. (2)
Other giving agnis also encroach upon the current space at the top. Those who kill the cloud from their flame climb up to free the agni water. 
O king! The gods have not given this cow to you to eat. A Brahmin cow is inedible. Don't want to eat it. (1)
O agni! You are very broad. You are very powerful. You make us powerful to destroy the enemy. You make human beings mighty. Fire is very widespread, powerful and hostile. They should make man mighty. Fire is disgusting. Please increase the host's thirst for the agni. (41)
Aditya, Aditi, friends with a very simple nature, Varun and Aryama are merry. May the protectors of the world be our protectors. They drink somras to protect us today. 
I keep four pots filled with milk, curd, honey and wine in east, south, west and north directions. O host! All these streams full of milk, water and curd in heaven, obtained as the fruit of the Brahmaudan session yajna, should reach you and the lake should be present near you while irrigating the melody. (7)
Agni is born from Savita Dev. Ashwini Dev calls Agni from the arms. Pusha Dev calls agni with his hands. Fire is mounted on the earth. Fire calls you by digging the earth. You are a shining light. You are gracious. You are constantly illuminated by the sun. You want the welfare of the people. You are on earth. Angiras call out to you by digging the earth. (28)
One who knows earth, Jupiter and agni as Brahma attains Brahman Force and Brahmavarchas. (9)
Prajapati Brahma is the father who creates the whole world. The speech received from them and spread in all beings in the form of sound is the owner of the behavior of the whole world. They should get the sunlight radiance i.e. Brahman in the form of praise from the first word. (2)
Amongst the hymns in the Sāma Veda know me to be the Brihatsama; amongst poetic meters I am the Gayatri. Of the twelve months of the Hindu calendar I am Margsheersh, and of seasons I am spring, which brings forth flowers.
To Yama, the son of Vivasvan, who lives far away, we return what you have believed. You live to inhabit this world. 
O Indra and Soma! Run the means of slaughter from space ordnance only once. Run your armament from the earth even once to kill the demons who talk about sin. To kill them, intensify your violent thunderbolt and kill the demons with the weapon thunderbolt with which you have received water from the clouds. (4)
They perform yagya to protect the body of the host. This yajna is performed for Ashwinikumaras, Saraswati Devi and Indra Dev. Grains, medicines, honey, drinks, ghee, milk, soma and ghee etc. are obtained for the gods. May the gods please accept all this. Please do yajna for the welfare of all. (30)
Demons whose claws are facing back, ankles and faces facing forward, who are born in barns, who are born from the dung of cows, horses, etc., who are headless, who say mutmut words, whose mouths are like horses and who walk as fast as air, O Brahmanspati! Destroy them all by means of detention by this mustard. (15)
Human beings receive Indra through stotras in the same way as the Kanva gotra rishi, the swami of the three worlds and worshiped by those who wish for the fruit, indra received due to praises. Just as the Sun attains its controller Indra, so does the sage Indra of the Bhriga dynasty. (2)
O rice! I hold you among the Brahmins who know sages etc. and feed you to such Brahmins. There is also no possibility of Brahmins who do not know sages, gotras etc. in this Brahmaodan. Agni Dev is my protector. May all i.e. forty-nine marut and vishwe dev protect the rice cooked by me. (33)
This powerful Taurus i.e. bull is capable of making thousands of cows pregnant. It takes many forms in its semen vessels. This bull with Jupiter-related mantras is worthy of cows. May it increase your child by thanking the donor host. (1)
O Kamini! I adapt your mind to me through this experiment, just as the superior horse chews the reins. O Kamini! Just as the different straws are scattered by the wind, so let your mind travel under me. (2)
Do not remove the water and medicine from your place. Let the medicine in the yajna remain in its place. Let these two beautify the book. Varun Dev should not leave us. We should not kill those who are not worth killing. May we be free from curses and sins by the grace of Barun Dev. They should not leave us. Water and medicines are our good friends. May those whom we hate be destroyed, those who hate us be destroyed. (22)
Hey Rudra! Just as the Son greets the Father who blesses, so let us greet you as he comes. We praise you, the children of the more donors and the gentleman. You give us the medicine. 
O Indra and Agni! Just as a pair of horses move together towards the grass, so you both walk towards the unruly Somras. We call upon you both with vajradhari and danadi qualities for our protection. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come to the one who holds the monam in my hand, the adorned, the mighty, the grainy and the one who is the one who is worshiping the agni. If you are going to the yagnas of a wise man, still leave those yajnas and come to drink our somras. 
Indra, who is always ready in defence, should receive this thousand number of Som-like food. In it all the powers reside. 
He is the inspiration for the resolution of agni yajna. Swaha for them. They give the wisdom of agni sacrifice. Motivates the mind to perform yajna. Swaha for agni. This sacrifice is given to agni for the accomplishment of initiation and penance. Swaha for Saraswati Devi. Swaha for Pusha Dev. Swaha for agni. O God of Water! Swaha for you. Swaha for Shambhu Dev, the guardian of the world. Swaha for heaven. Swaha for the earth. Swaha for the vast spaceland. We dedicate Havi to Jupiter. Swaha for them. (7)
The weak person who moves around with the desire for food is the giver who gives him food. He gets enough fruit of the yajna and he finds a friend even among the enemies. 
O God of the universe! Vasu and Aditya Devo! Protect this man who desires long life and be careful about this man who wishes for long life. Its homogeneous or heterogeneous enemies could not even come to it. No one should be able to do this violence. (1)
O agni with radiant wealth! You destroy darknesses by increasing your power by the same rays as the sun. 
No human being does more loving service to me than they; nor shall there ever be anyone on this earth more dear to me.
Just as people chase stolen animals when they see footprints, so the sages who serve you looked for you among the waters. The wise sages who wished you and the wise bhriguvanshi received the agni hidden in solitude through praises. 
O men! Who appointed you? Why have you been appointed? God has appointed you. Appointed in the best karma. (6)
This gem made of tilak tree is definitely capable of returning the sin demonic act, very energetic and conquering. May this gem protect the son, grandson etc. and protect me in all ways. (16)
This agni god is very bright with the great egg of smoke. Agni, which showers the wishes of heaven and earth, makes great words. These agnis pervad above the sky. After that, they get great growth in the region of waters. (65)
O agni of service and holyness! May our hymn praise you and you give him pleasure. 
O king! We have brought you into our nation! You be our master among us. Be firm on the authority of the state without fickleness. All people want you. This nation should not be corrupted by your right. (1)
The flames of agni that are lit, workable and inhabiting for the welfare of the host shine towards the yajnashala. The agnis, which are sharp-edged, with delightful force and praised by many hosts, are illuminated in this way, just as the horse etc. the king is adorned with wealth. 
 O Indra! You are free from brothers' fights from the beginning. You don't even have brothers who help you or rule you. You establish brotherhood with your devotees by giving protection in war. 
O sun of supreme opulence! May your personalities, which are in the waters, on earth, in the sky and yours in the moving air in space, O Indra, give us happiness through those personalities or idols. O broad sun! Your powers are infinite. You complete us with animals of many forms like cows, buffaloes, etc. and establish us in the sudha that is located in the supreme vyom. (13)
In ancient times, the ten gods who were born to the gods, they themselves reside in which world even after giving this world to their sons? (10)
O agni! You leave us when you're angry. Indra, who follows the fast of the gods, said this to us. The scholar Indra saw you. O agni! In their discipline, we will come close to you. 
After receiving the service of human beings, Indra collected all the properties. Shur Indra subdued the horses with words and special deeds. 
O Lord.o! You covered the cow with leather and mixed it with its calf again. O sons of Sudhanva and leaders of the yajna! You have made your aged parents young again with the desire of shobhan karma. 
At the time of Surya's marriage, the riches named Rebhi became his friends and the riches named Narasani became his maids. The entire welfare of Surya was created by the textile saga itself. 
 O agni! We glorify you for donating a lot of money. You are going to shower boons. Praise heaven and earth for great sacrifice. 
O Indra and Agni! You become the remover of our gross sorrows through your protecting intellect. May Indra and Varuna, given by the hosts, remove our sorrows. May Indra and Soma relieve our sorrow to give us happiness. May Indra and Pusha Dev mitigate our sorrows, fears and diseases in a fierce battle. (1)
Aditya i.e. Aditi's son, may all protect me in Dev Dullok. May three agnis protect me from land-related disturbances. May Indra and Agni protect me in the east direction. May Ashwini Kumar, son of the Sun and the physician of the gods, give me happiness from all sides. Jataveda Agni protect me in all directions. May the gods who protect ghosts and vampires protect us from all sides. (2)
O agni! The menes praise you and please you through yajnakarmas. May our praises increase you. 
O air! You have got an horse called Nyut to reach the yagnabhoomi. They are skilled in their work, who love you, are always going to be with you and see your interest. May the joy-making, intoxicating, well-kept, bright and spell-called drops of somras strike you. Wise hosts go to you and praise you. 
Make two masks for elephants. (20)
"O fire! Under what the gods have told you to do messengers, we have to build horses and chariots, make the dead cow new without skin, and make the decaying parents young. O brother! We'll come before you by doing all these things." 
O Indra! You drink what is kept in the characters called Somras Chamas and Chamu, because you are its master. 
Let the deserts hear our praise and eat the same. The leaders are present with desert waters. O Maruto! Give rise to our people and give the soul and wealth to the host of the husband. 
For us, cows, chariots, gold, heaven, water and thousands of riches are sanctified. The gods have made intoxicating, extremely tasteful, juicy, red-colored and pleasant mon to drink. 
O Indra! You give us a house, give us friends, and give us great power like the Maruts. At the same time, while happy and coming towards the yagna, the deserts should drink the som placed in front of them. 
O agni full of knowledge! Fulfill our wishes in all ways. O agni of consciousness! You should perform yajna of the gods in order and sit on the clenched kushas. 
Friends and Varuna are the masters of all, the givers of water, the bright and the admirable of the gods. 
 O agni! You are going to know everything. You are the master of wealth. To do this yajna well, we are sending you as an ambassador. 
Those who desire my sin of violence, those who come from the east direction and worship me at night, should not hide me in any way. Those enemies should go to the agni with gods called Vasu for their destruction. (1)
When the sun comes out, the Vaishnavar agnis take over the darkness of space. They take darkness from space, earth and even from heaven. 
The first to appear, the one who cut the clouds, the satya-speaking Angiras, i.e. Jupiter with the Angira tribe, is entitled to receive havi. They are the servitors, the ones who speak in the heavens and the earth, adorned with the wings of the peacock, the follower of dharma, and the rain. (1)
O agni of good deeds! For the host engaged in the yajna, milk the yajnaphal from the cow that satisfies the world and gives the desired milk. You are present everywhere in the yajnashala, dynamic and behave like shobhan yajna, illuminating the three lokas by receiving the sacrifice of the gharit. 
At the time of yajna, I speak from the bottom of my heart for the refreshers, the bulls, the bulls, the seeds, the serpents, the serpents, the ones who are offered by nature, the refreshers, the somyukta peethas and the yajnavidhata agni. 
Oh, God! I call Aditi, Varuna, Mitra, Agni, Shatrughna and all the gods who protect the serviceable Aryama, Savita, Bhaga and protectors through the praises with the desire to find happiness. 
May we get Brahmanaspati and dear truth Rupa Vagdevi. May the gods of Brahmanaspati, etc., take the heroic enemies far away from us and take us to human-benevolent and true yagya. 
O fire! You enjoy the havya with the gods even when you see us near you. You bring the revered wealth to the devotees with a graciously adorned mind. O strong fire! Give us more food to see and enjoy the earth. O rich godly fire! Give money to the stoetas. You destroy our enemies like the supreme sacrifice and cruel one. 
Oh, my! Defeat the enemy who attacked us. You go to them, killing your enemies, especially by committing violence against them and ending them forever. Your furious force cannot be stopped. You alone subdue the enemies. 
Horses with mutually compatible deserts and semen power and with a yoke in the chariot serve Indra. Just as rivers meet the sea, so the mantra-oriented hymns meet the widespread Indra everywhere. 
Aditya Dev publishes everyone. Aditya sets Dev in the west direction. Aditya Dev Rathwan is a fighter, village guard and pioneer. Pramlochana and Anulochani are the two nymphs of these. Tiger animals are their weapons. Snakes etc. are sharp weapons. Aditya bows to Dev. Let agni protect us. May agni give us happiness. May the agni hold in your jaws to all those who hate us and those whom we hate. (17)
O light and wealthy Usha! Those who pray to you through the hymns are rich and glorious. O usha with a wonderful and wonderful praise! People miss you for being charitable. 
O aschinikumaro! You may bring the best money to the host who gives the havya through your chariot and let the shortage of food and disease be away from us. Madhuswamy Ashwinikumaro! You protect us day and night. 
The person who serves indra's hostile mind through yajnas is never filled with place or destroyed. The person who delivers praises to Indra through yajnas, give him the guardian of the yajna and the Indra money produced in the yajna. 
O agni! Hello to you. We worship you. Hello to you. We worship you. May your actions make us pure. Take away our sorrows. May you make us holy and be kind to be good to us. (20)
We have started a praiseful and pure yajna in the morning. This yajna with four stones, three vowels, seven verses and ten characters is beneficial and heaven-giving to human beings, it will be famous with beautiful praises and havans. 
The earth and Godmata, which is not fragmentable, is heaven and space. She is the creator mother and the father of the universe. He is the son born of mother and father. Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras and Nishads – these five jatis are also Aditi. Aditi is also the tribunal of origin and birth of subjects. (1)
The agnis called by the abrasives, at the time when they make words up and down, they reveal their form like the mighty sun. 
O Indra praised by many! In the third savan i.e. evening yajna, make our roasted barley and havan-performed purodash great by devouring. O lord of the sages, with rich sons and the poet Indra! We serve you with praises in our hands. 
O ghost! I am giving you roasted barley with sesame seeds. May they be satisfying for you. May Yamraj order you to use these sesame seeds. (69)
Dressed by hymns, these Somdevs enter the waters by giving gems to the havandata host. 
 O Mon! Your weapons are fierce. They are going to scare the enemies. Protect us from the pain of condemnation by enemies with their help. 
O agni! In our elaborate and bright glory, you would have called the seven and the gods indra, friend, varuna, bhaga, etc. well. We will praise the gods for getting wealth. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
O body! We eat enough of the barley etc. flora, so you become fat.  
May the Supreme Personality of Godhead you with both brahmagyan and kshatra tej (please grace to grace). May the deities be pleased to adorn us with the best. For this, they offer this sacrifice. (16)
You guys, secured by Mon, drink its shaktisadhan juice. The mons, desired by all, give great wealth to the hymns like the sun. 
The son of Aditi, who wears a golden jewel, is radiant, holy, sleepless, nimeshless, unmindful by the asuras and admired by all people, the son of Aditi, who wears three bright ones, wears agni, air and sun for simple men. 
O Maruto! Your horses seem to be flogged on their thighs. Hey leaders! Just as women spread their thighs to give birth to a son, so you force horses to spread their thighs. 
 O Mon! You are nectar. You possess true and auspicious elements for human beings. You have revealed the sun, served the gods and are always eager to give food and money to the hosts. 
O more wealthy Indra! You have fulfilled both the diva-prithvivi with your importance and power. Indra, the lord of the horses called Hari, is served by the Somras in the yagnas while throwing a vajja at the enemies. 
O the world agni in darkness! All gods, afraid of darkness, greet you. Protect us by protecting the mortal world by your own protection. 
O rich men! You are not hidden by anyone. You are willing to give health, so give me health. You are going to make my hair strong, so strengthen my hair. (3)
The furious Indra had killed Suvind, Anarshini, Pipru, Das and Ahishuv while motivating the water to flow. 
Those fires originated in the vast sky country and first came close to Matrishwa. After this, they grew well by fuel, and by a strong sacrificial act, their flame illuminated the earth and the sky. 
O death! You promise the partiality of this. That is, say that it is mine. Don't you start killing it. This is your own people. It should be moving everywhere in the earth. O Bhava and Sharva! Make it happy and try for its welfare. You remove the sin of its disease and establish age in it. (7)
The act should have a bad effect on the person using the act and the curse should be cursed only. Just as the chariot rotates easily, so the krita should turn towards its motivator. (5)
O glitzy and drinkable mon of Indra! You nichud for the best paan of Indra in our yajna detailed by the gods. O som, the water-maker, who dries the earth with rain, comes from vast space and is pure! You serve us by giving money etc. 
This bright and evil goddess is the creator! Hello to you. Pleased with namaskar, you rescued us from the noose of iron. O man of seekers! On being free from sin, Yama has given you this world. Salutations to Yama, the god of death. (2)
 Those who are awake, riches wish for them. Only those who are awake receive soma. Som says to those who are awake that I am your friend. 
I do not know that I am the supreme Brahman who knows and I wander among him lying in doubt. Therefore, through the intellect that is prominent in all the intestines, I know whether I am the work or the cause. Accordingly, I use speech. (15)
O You are the ones of praise! When the savitas who go above you and are the ones who are going above you rise, then the human beings, animals, birds and the people who make the supplication get involved in their respective work. 
The leaders of the shur indra war conquer the war with the maruts and hear the call of the hymn who desires grace. At the time they want to hear the praise of their own free will, they bring their chariot to the host who gives the greeting. 
O men! Who besides Indra is an angry friend who will say to his friend, "Whom have I killed and who runs away from me?" 
O yajnagami and indita indra! For the benefit of yajna, you go to a more knowledgeable host and upgrade it with money, knowledge, etc. Make him successful and friendly immediately. O Indra! You are the best of all priests. Accept the promise we have given us as quickly as you accept our praise. 
The wife of the sun, Bharathi, i.e., Agni should come with the suryarishyas and the gods of this man.' Come with saraswati mediated gods. The three ladies sat on the kushas in the yajna. 
O vegetation! Give us the bone form that is hidden in you, that is, the structure of the man's bones. So that he can be located in Yamraj's house while doing yagya related work. (70)
 O Mon! You are going to sanctify the world. With your help, we can do our duty well in war. Aditi, Mitra, Varuna, Earth, Sindhu Devta and Heaven, please make us successful. 
Indra Dev, who is free from destruction, does not give trouble, the sustainer of all the subjects, the demon named Vritra or destroys the cloud, who destroys the base cloud of water, who especially violences the enemies, who controls all beings, showers desires and drinks Someras, becomes our leader in the struggle. (1)
 O Mon! We are your friends. We have got brilliance from you. We have become capable of destroying all enemies. 
O Indra and Varuna! One of you destroys the enemies in battles and the other always protects the yagnakarmas. That's all you want! We call you by the adornments. You give us happiness. 
O act! The Agent has covered you in food items worshipped by humans and placed you in the field. We return you to him who sent you. (4)
O Indra! Destroy the demons who do the violence of the people at night like the owls, who do violence to the people like wolves, dogs, chakwa, hawks and vultures, with your stone-like thunderbolt. 
Squeezed by their fingers, these shurs sit in the early chariot through the Som Yajna and go to the heaven made by Indra. 
Indra was the protector of the gods, which was the cause of the golden conch, that is, the conch was formed from gold. He is present inside the waters by holding the body in the form of a golden conch. O Brahmachari with sacrifice! In this way, I bind the gold in the form of conch in your body for eternal life. May this golden jewel give you strength, speed and long life and protect you for a hundred years. (7)
Just as the horse of the chariot is released, so Soma is squeezed from two fruits and left in the filtering vessel. Like a horse, The Vigwan Somras goes to the war of yajna. 
By killing the vritra, vandhari Indra became the master of the immovable, movable, hornless and hornless animals. Indra became the king of humans too. Just as the wheels are located in the name of the array, so indra held everyone. 
 Indra is a donor of thousands, very energetic and very capable. They are admired everywhere. We should all praise Indra. 
O woman! You take a pitcher filled with water flowing a stream of honey, ghee etc. with water like nectar and come to this school and complete this ghat with water like nectar. Protect us from thieves, agni etc. (8)
Agni and Som are saying this. May Pusha Dev establish us in the virtuous world. (2)
O thunderbolt Indra! We will be protected by you and with your help we will win great wealth in wars. So that you can bathe in the water and perform sun sighting. 
The host who worships the gods comes to the magnificent chariot sent by the gods. The host prospers by destroying all the obstacles of the enemies by that chariot. 
Agni is a benefactor of the guests and give the desired fruits like the chariot, while praising the agni. O agni! You have proper defense money and you are the master of wealth. 
O father of men and holy agni! You may be born in a radiant form from water, stone, forest and herbs on the day of the yagna. 
O Indra! You come from the mountain, space and heaven. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the dulok, so go to dulok. 
Fall around like drops of sweat, the glistening armament of Indra. They spread like milk fibers and let the wisdom go away from us. The divinely virtuous and well-being mother has given birth to you. 
The fever that comes on the second or fourth day should go to the regular fever frog. (2)
With the words of new praise, the horses named Hari have been added to Indra's chariot so that Indra can come soon. There are many wise hymns in this yajna. O Indra! Other hosts won't be able to make you happier. 
O gods worthy of the sacrifice of men! You listen to our praise. Give us what we ask of you. Give us the wisdom that gives us glory and the glory of wealth and children. Today we ask the gods for the same famous defense. 
O moon! You become new born on the pratipada etc. dates of Shukla Paksha. You walk ahead of the nights, introducing days like a flag. O moon! Thus achieved at the end of the fortnight by halas and growth does the division of Havi. In this way you have a long life. (2)
O atishya-yajnapatra, who calls the best gods among the gods, without death and the beauty of this yajna agni! We call you. 
Vrithra, without hands, challenged Indra into battle. Indra hit the thunderbolt in the firm shoulder of Vritra like the top of the mountain. Just as the effort of a powerless man who equals a powerful man goes in vain, the same is the case of the circle. He fell to the ground injured in many places. 
Indra, the master of others and the guardian of all, was exalted by our praises, the master of others and the lord of all. 
O Indra! You drank the somras squeezed by the sage Kadru and killed his enemies.  Indra's purushartha was stirred on the occasion. 
O Indra, called and seen by many! My mind, oriented towards you, goes to no one else. I set my desire on you. Just as the king sits in his palace, so you sit on the kushas of the yajna. May you have a desire to drink towards this Shobhan Mon. 
I shall now reveal unto you fully this knowledge and wisdom, knowing which nothing else remains to be known in this world.
O darbhamani! You have been called the armor of the gods and the protector of the Vedas. You have been described as Indrak Kavach. You protect nations. (3)
O agni! Your flames are light. You are as great as a stone crushing somalta. You are self-indicative. Your word is like thunder. 
O Ashinikumaro with wealth! Bring enough food easily with the help of that chariot for our animals, sons and cows. 
O friend, Varuna, Aryama, Aayur, Indra, Ribhuo and Maruto! All of you, accept our adornment and sinless hymns and greetings. Please be pleased with the merciful Rudra and accept our service. 
Hey Mon! You go into the inspired horse-like sangram. O all those who know Mon! You go to Dronakalash, the maker of water from Dolok. The rainers are purified on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair for Indra, the holder of the soma. Dashapavitra is as high as the peak of the mountain. 
We call the enemy, the anthropotrophic and the summoning Indra through our adornment praise. Indra is our special protector, a wealthy protector, a respectful speaker of us and a seeker of food and fame. 
If you have eaten Brahmaudan facing the soul, then the air of apana will abandon you. Scholars should tell the glory of the person who eats such odan. (29)
Ancient sages took the name of Indra and gave war-like gems to human beings who wanted to protect them. In the beginning, Indra and other gods had made the war-torn medicines to destroy the great disease called Vishkandha. (1)
After getting the black color space, the rays of the sun reach the deulok, taking the juice of the earth's substances. Those sun rays bring water from the solar system as rain and later wet the earth with water. (1)
I serve with the glorious of the admirers, the great in the sangrams, the one who exhibits Vikram and the adornment praises of the mighty Indra to gain wealth. 
Every morning the ancient somas are squeezed over the dashapavittra. Som drives away the hidden, the knowledgeless and the thieves in the morning itself. 
I have subdued the demons while roaming around to search for myself with a view to protecting me. With the help of that vampire, I see the planet of Shudra and Brahmin jati. (8)
 O Indra! We call you with a lot of money even if we have a little money. We invite you to help protect against all small calamities and destroy enemies. 
O you are pure, Mon! Bring us great wealth, kill the enemies who kill us and give us childlike glory. 
We destroy the one who wants to destroy your children by pervading your dream form darkness. (16)
O Indra! In the yajna in which a heavy root stone is picked up to squeeze the somras and the somras is prepared with the help of okhali, drink the somras knowing your own. 
O vegetation! You leave yourself in this yajna by saying words and make agni delicious for the gods. (11)
The agnis desired by the greats and hosts are located in their best place between the earth and the sky. The wives of the same husband, the sun-like, the unselected, the earth and the sky, which are unviolable by others and who take watery milk, are the songs of that fast-moving agni. 
Oh my god! What should i know first? Which is the biggest bird? Who is the most amazing form of Bala? Who is he who swallows all forms? (53)
 O Mon! Someras has been squeezed for the Deserts. It is drank by Marudgan and Ashwinikumar suruchi. 
O medicine! The semen that is in horses, children, goats, rams and bulls, you should establish the same semen in this man's body. (8)
O Narada! You know so many cows that appear in humans? You are a scholar, that's why I ask you. Avoid eating the pran of Abrahman Vasha. (43)
 O Mon! You are holy. You reach everywhere with your rays like a horse. You provide good semen 
Vishnu took the whole world in his three legs. They are sitting with that power holding the worlds. (43)
The demons are its lohit i.e. blood and other people are its roots. (17)
O Ashwinikumaro! Our father Atri praised you. If the woman is blessed, she fulfills the desire of the husband, in the same way sage Atri got rid of the agni. O Ashwinikumaro! You come to protect us by the unique moves of the hawk bird by your soothing chariot. 
It is because of the force of this yajna that the sun rises. Just as the earth carries the weight of beings, so does yajna. 
These agni-catching and bright suns are visible in the east direction after reaching Udayachal and are pervading the mother land of all beings with their rays. They have covered heaven and space. These suns are called cows due to giving rainwater. (1)
O leader of the yajnakarma, the most beautiful and auspicious Aschinikumaro! You wish to give wisdom to sage Atri. O heaven's leader Ashwinikumar! Thus I will enter into your praise again. 
O agni that knows all! Let us see your might. O agni worthy of worship! Tell the demons as we wish not to hurt us. The demons persecuted by you should come to our shelter, introducing themselves. (5)
O stotao! Perform the rites of Indra, who are worthy of deep, wealth-giving and riku mantras, through grace and praise. Indra, who destroys the child of a dry asura with his power, wins the water of heaven. May Indra and Agni kill all enemies. 
Old age swallows up a young man who does many things like war, etc., and drives away many enemies in wars, by the command of Indra. See the power of Indra Dev that the one who was functioning properly yesterday has died today. 
Endowed with faith, the devotee worships a particular celestial god and obtains the objects of desire. But in reality I alone arrange these benefits.
O Indra! Your happiness is the most powerful and your yajna contains the most food. O horse form Indra who gives many riches! You support both the vortexical and the money-giving yagnas. 
The inspirational and diverse forms of all, the gods produce and nurture the people in many ways. The whole of Bhuvan belongs to them. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O Lord of many properties Indra! These praises of mine increase yours. As bright as agni and holy scholars praise you. 
This charu, containing powdered wheat pus, mixed with food mixed with wind, was located in the west direction in this yajna work. We please the deities of this havi, who are present here, among the gods like Indra, who created heaven for the ghost that is being cremated. (21)
O Indra! You are intelligent, have supreme opulence and do many things. You are the master of wealth everywhere. O Indra, who defeats enemies again and again! So you collect the entire money and provide it to me. I wish you and praise you. Don't let me be imperfect you. (3)
 Som goes as fast as thousands of horses. They are moving like chariots. They are filtered with a sieve in Dronalash. They are food providers. 
Oh God! If you eat it on behalf of the teeth on which the sages who had eaten this brahmaudana, then your teeth will fall. The disciples said, "I have not eaten this odan without any hindrance, nor have I eaten it from the front, nor did I eat it with my soul. I have eaten it with my teeth in the form of spring etc. I have eaten it through them and delivered it wherever it should have gone. This odon is full of all the organs, including all the joints and the whole body. By this method, the one who knows how to eat this odan is the one with all the organs, with all the joints and the whole body. (6)
O Swami of more wealth Indra! You fill thousands of our cows, horses etc. with wealth. Let us stay awake and be under the control of our peaceful sleep. (4)
Urvashi, who became as white as lightning falling from the sky and fulfilled my wide desires, gave birth to a man-giving son from her womb. At that time Urvashi gave me a long life. 
O Indra! You are the king of the inhabitants of heaven. You take a thunderbolt in your right hand and destroy the maya of the demons. (9)
Your mind should not go about Yamraj and your mind should not merge. Do not be careless about your brothers. Don't follow the dead ancestors. Indra Adi Dev follow you in this body. (7)
O Saraswati! May you be the giver of all happiness for us, the most capable of disease prevention and the giver of pleasant pleasure. Let us not be separated from your knowledge of the true form. (1)
 Friends and Varuna Devta take us on the best path of justice at a simple pace. Along with other gods, Aryama Devta should also take us to that place at a simple pace. 
It's been ushakal. The agni with bright rays has been installed on the altar. O wealth-showering and enemy-destroyer Ashwinikumaro! Your perishable chariot is full of horses. O you who know honey! You listen to my call. 
O Indra! Come before us, for the ancients have called you somptirs. It's kept som niggled, be happy to drink it. Become those with a wide body and rain somras in our stomachs. Just as the Father listens to the Son, so listen to Us as you are called by Us. 
O Jupiter! You rescue this brahmachari from the curse of Yamraj, who has a building in the hereafter. Yamraj's curse is the cause of death. O agni! By your grace, Ashwinikumar should free our brahmachari from the cause of death through his actions. (1)
 O Mon! You fill the urn with somers. You fill that full dronakalsh. You be powerful. You attack the enemies. Free us from debts. You defeat our enemies. You go to attack them. 
I praise indra who is worthy of invoking the main in the yajnas of the hosts through the vaanis whose swami is Indra. They are prayed by praises of Indra, who fulfills the wishes. He is the destroyer of Indra's force, the doer of many deeds and is powerful. (1)
The people who performed the yajna wore the powerful agni. O agni! We serve you with a lot of money. You look forward to the annadaan. Be our protectors by being the supremely pleased with us in this yagna today. 
O Indra! We are attracted to you and praise you through this psalm. Why do you worry in vain? O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! You have a lot of desires. You're the one to donate. We and our sacrificial works are close to you. 
O Indra! When your desert people bind all beings to you in the law, then you regulate the whole world. 
The gods appointed the two months of the hemant season from the pole direction i.e. the earth or from the bottom side as its protector and made the earth and agni its ritualists. (13)
The hawk bird brought the rasa som of the gods who rained water, the protector of the yagna and the seer of all. 
All this is received by him. He is the only one. (12)
O aschinikumaro! You make our simple, undefeated and wealth-seeking wisdom justified for profit. Protect our intellects even in the struggle. O yajnapalaka ashinikumaro! Give us money through our come. 
O agni! May the host who serves you through yajnakarma be the best and the one with riches and may he praise you forever. 
Pleased with the mantras of the Angiragotrian sages, Indra showed them the path so that they could bring the cows hidden by the pangs. Indra succeeded in his praise. On hearing the praises of the Stotas, Indra took away Usha by the sun and destroyed the old cities of Ashna. 
A person who does not have a feeling of charity in his mind receives food in vain. The food of such a person is like his death. He who neither strengthens the gods nor feeds the sakha, such a person who eats himself is only a sinner. 
Varun taunted space. He established the power of yajna in the heart, established agni, established the sun in heaven and Soma on the mountain. (31)
O Swami of Wealth Indra! Your name is true. Our praises are able to bring you to us. (2)
O agni! You, along with other agnis, increase our praises and sacrifices. You give inspiration to the donors for our yajna to donate money. 
 Gods and goddesses have compiled mantras. May those mantras be beneficial for us not only in this world but also in the hereafter. They are going to fulfill all our wishes. 
Stota Brahmins are chanting great praises in front of the mothers of the yajna. Mon is going to be a matter like the baby of Dulok. 
My hymns praise the importance of agni. They show their color to the ritwijs who wish for my look. They are identified with the strange glow for the sake of delightful ness and become young again and again even when they are old. 
Mituti sirji has been done (prepared) by the patient Basus and Rudraganas. Siniwali Devi should prepare that soil to make a vessel with her hands and please make the vessel. (55)
O you are pure, Mon! You drop the juice for Indra where the Brahmin, who speaks praise made for you through seven verses, squeezes your juice with the help of a stone and you worship the Brahmin who creates joy in the gods. 
O Brahmaudana! You are the complement of desires and bring you to heaven. You go to the sages who know the mantra. When eaten by them, you bring us to heaven, the realm of those who do virtue. There will be ours and your culture. (35)
 O Indra! From the past, your hosts sing your gatha 
O Indra! You must consume these havyas that have come near you, the cooked porodash and the squeezed mon. We take food and call you for food. May the wishes of our host be fulfilled. 
O father! You are somersa achievable. May you come from serious pitrayanas and spread sesame seeds on the kushas laid for pind daan, give us a long life and children as sons and grandsons and reunite us with the prosperity of wealth. (62)
In the yagnas, the somas rapidly go to the kalash, are put on the dashapavittra and grow with the ukatthamantras. 
O cow unworthy of violence! Your hair should become a vessel called Prokshni of yajna and your tongue should clean the yajna altar i.e. clean it. O Shataudana Gau! In this way, become pure and worthy of sacrifice and go to heaven. (3)
We should ride in a boat with good protection, wide, reachable, sin-free, inspiration for happy deeds and unbroken divine boats. Let us, who do not commit crime, ride on that beautiful drumming and holeless divine boat to get welfare. (1)
A cloud of caution in the rain came into the sky and the mother started to move around again and again due to the water. The maruts who extended the word far and wide in the sky spread the sound inspired by Indra well. 
O Saraswati! The fathers call you by coming to the south and walking around in the yagna. You give a share of food and wealth worshipped by many people for the host in this yajna. 
We praise each god with radiant praise and call upon each god to protect the yagnakarma, get the desired things and get food. 
Those revolutions had pervaded the earth from all sides. They were adorned with gold and gems. They could not conquer Indra. Indra, who disrupted the yagna, drove them away with the help of the sun. 
 O Ashchini Kumaro! Please bring light for yajna from heaven and do good to the people. Please both of you to make us energetic and energetic. 
O Indra worthy of praise! You're powerful. Please be so kind that our enemies cannot hurt our bodies. You stop them from slaughtering us. 
Oh my friend, Ritvizo! I praise the Indra who brought all this wealth to us in ancient times, for protecting you. 
Savita Dev! Truth is the motivator of the path and the illuminating of all. By getting the strength of Jupiter, who is busy in the war, we also win the war. Our strong horses are very fast. By his grace, we win the war. We stop the path of enemies and measure the distance of the kos due to these horses. can reach across the border. (13)
 O Indra! You have surrounded heaven and earth with your power, just as iron bars surround the wheel from all sides. Our prayers have the power to rain water from space. 
This is the hymn! Just as the sailor crosses the passengers by boat, so you send praises to the great Indra, which is worthy of being received by mantras. Bring to us the famous and most delightful Indra by your praise. Indra gives a lot of money to our children. 
The one who reads the Vedas, who forsakes the friend who knows the friend, has no substance in his speech. Whatever the man hears, he hears in vain. He does not know the way of good deeds. 
O friend, Ritvizzo! You provide food and praise for the most advanced, the son of strength and the mighty agni for the welfare of the hosts. 
You should drink the umbilical object that King Varuna, Goddess Saraswati and Vritra Destroyer Indra know. (6)
Saraswati, great by mahatmya, full of glory and the chief among other rivers, is considered to be the best water wallowed. Prajapati has made Saraswati more virtuous for expansion. 
Mon is massaged by the hosts' fingers in the same way as the bright horse is massaged. 
Those who know me without doubt as the Supreme Divine Personality truly have complete knowledge. O Arjun, they worship me with their whole being.
This is Shakhipati Indra! When by your grace I am endowed with cows, I will be able to give money to this praising scholar, wishing to give him money. (2)
O beloved of all, Indra! Countless people call you to their sacrifices. All of you love you like friends. You place everyone in heaven. I pray that you may have mercy on those who praise you. 
 O Indra! You nurture all human beings. You are rich, famous and you increase the hosts. You are immortal. We do many complimentary praises for you every day. We worship you again and again with many divine worships. 
O answer! You are a lioness. Swaha for The Lioness. You are a lioness. You are going to please Aditya. Good luck to you. You are a lioness. You are going to please Brahmins. You are a Lioness, you are a lover to please kshatriyas. Good luck to you. You are the Lioness form. You are the one who gives good children and money. Good luck to you. You are a lioness. You are going to invoke the gods for the host. This sacrifice is dedicated to you for the living beings. (12)
Pleased with Someras, Indra holds the mountains, enrages the substances of space and makes the jhuloka kundanmaya. (8)
O Indra! It is achieving the same growth as squeezed somerous cows. O Indra! Those who praise you have reached the Ritvij Yagyamandapa, so you come to listen to our stotra. Just as vayu dev goes towards his horses to go to the yajna places, you should also be satisfied and come to give us food. (4)
The yajna should increase the compassion of Agni, Indra Dev, Som and Indra Dev, Savita Dev and Indra Dev, Saraswati Devi and Indra Dev and Pusha Dev and Indra Dev. Yajna increases the compassion of Jupiter Dev and Indra Dev. May yajna be all-fruitful for us. (16)
The light of Brahma Dev is like the light of the Sun. Heaven is a pond like the sea. Indra Dev is older than Prithvi Devi. Gau Mata has no magnitude. (48)
They said to Jupiter, "This is your married wife. You should receive its body by hand. The messenger had gone to find them, to him he did not surrender. It is as safe as the nation of the mighty king. 
O men wishing for age! May your life, which has left you and been encroached upon by you, come back again by the grace of life and your air. Anine has taken that age from near death with poor speed. I restore that age brought by agni in your body. (3)
The teeth of violent animals like tigers etc. become unable to eat. Their horns and ribs should also not be sharp. O pathak! Let it not be seen in your way, and let the wicked animals sleeping also go away from the previous path. (6)
O Brahmaspati! Just as you made the son of Ushij famous, Kshanivan, so also make the host of the Somras famous among the gods. 
This is the hymn! Thus worship the great Varuna. Greet Varuna, the protector and patience of nectar. Varun give us a three-storey house. In Varun's lap, let us protect the present people. 
Oh my god! You stay simple. Don't fall on us. Let our bodies become hard like stones. Som Dev speak towards us. May Aditi Dev bless us with happiness. (49)
O agni! We cannot defeat the enmity of humans and gods. Save us from these two types of enemies. 
 O Usha! You are the best light of all the lights. Your light spreads everywhere. They make all things luminous. After Savita sets, the night gives Usha a place to be born. 
O scorpion! You obstruct creatures through both tail and mouth, there is no poison in your middle part and mouth. Why should there be poison in the part of your rheumatic, that is, the tail? (8)
A warrior comes close to this, who is going to subdue only one cow. The yajna became the one who crossed. Vasha became the eye of those who crossed the cow. That is, everyone crossed sorrow only by following Vasa Gau. (24)
Knowing that Savita Dev cut the hair of Som and King Varuna, O Brahmins! You cut the hair of this man's beard and mustache with the same razor. With this special rite, this man should be equipped with many cows, horses and subjects. (3)
O agni with huge wealth! The host who gives you the havya destroys the food also in the fortified city of the enemy by his horses and holds the unstainable food. We will also receive all the best wealth located in you. 
O Lord Indra! You are wonderful, thunderful and admirable on earth. You give us godhan and horse-drawn chariots. You make us strong so that we can win wars. (38)
The animals of this sacrificial animal group who are sad to see it being killed and see it with a sad heart with loving eyes, May Agni Dev open the noose of love for all of them. Vishwakarma should also free it while doing words with his creation. (3)
The Sun God, the protector of the way, is present to protect at the beginning of the paths. Sun God is present in the entrance of the earth and sky. The sun comes from the sky to the earth and goes from the earth to the sky, knowing the deeds done by the hosts and the fruits of it by targeting both the earth and the sky located together. (1)
Let the agni complete our devagamana yajna karma well. We have attained the agni like the deep tongue of the yajna. They have come in the presence of agni sugandhi and age and have made our Devahlanrupi yajna auspicious today. 
Hello to Rudra Dev. Salutations to your anger. Hello to your arrows. Hello to both of your arms. (1)
The rays that remain with the sun every day also stay with Indra, the swami of water. We wish that indra's water-like clouds are wide. Just as Indra divides the wealth of the three periods past, present and future, in the same way we pay attention to the part of that money. (1)
O agni! Honor the words of praise with all the glorious agnis in the sacrifices of your worshipers. 
The gem that Jupiter tied to get the same velocity as air, the gods have given me the same happy gem. This gem has provided truth for the gods again and again and every day. O host! With the help of this gem, destroy your enemies. (17)
Jupiter, son of Sage Angira and minister of devas, and Gods like Indra etc. have killed the asuras through this sacrifice and attained all the worlds. Jupiter has made that vajra the means of destroying the asuras through this sacrifice. (12)
May the earth which was earlier submerged in the water of the ocean, the mystics doing many types of work, the earth on which the heart is located in the vast sky, may that deathless earth give us the best nation, strength and radiance. (8)
O charming Indra! The first generation which gives money to the next generation, the money which comes from the big small and the money which is received from the father and goes abroad from the house like the son dying, give us these three kinds of attractive wealth. 
You irrigate Aditya's womb with milk. You are thousands of forms. You destroy diseases with your speed. You give the host a centennial and free him from arrogance. (41)
Let us not be saddened by Rudra, who throws weapons, has blue shikhands, i.e. with peacock feathers, has a thousand eyes, is fast and kills half of the army. (7)
O Arjun, actions do not bind those who have renounced karm in the fire of Yog, whose doubts have been dispelled by knowledge, and who are situated in knowledge of the self.
 The Sun is the set of divine radiances of the gods. They are friends, eyes of Varuna and Anne. As soon as the sun rises, heaven, earth and space world etc. are all illuminated by their light. 
O Indra! The demon who curses me, the Brahmin who works with a true heart and speaks untrue words to me, is as immaterial as the water coming out of Anjali. He who speaks untruth should himself become void, that is, he should be destroyed. (8)
The shanrunivarak kiran of Som brightens up its form. She sleeps in battle, stops the enemies, comes to the god-godly man with the food that is giving water and meets the shobhanstutis. Som meets the sentences by which the stota prays to get the cows. 
Samvatsars originated from the watery sea. In the blink of an eye, God, the Lord of the world, made days and nights. 
Our capable former men wished for Indra by giving food in the form of Havi, then they were able to achieve siddhi after nine months. Praising Indra, he attained pitrulok. Indra commits violence against the saints. They cross inaccessible paths and are very powerful. No one can violate Indra's command. (2)
O Indra! You killed karanj and parnaya asuras, the enemies of the king of Atithigava, with the power of your very sharp spelling name. You also destroyed the hundred cities of Vangridasur, the shanru of the Rishishwa king. (8)
 O Indra! You give us a lot of money for our protection, for enjoyment and to conquer enemies. 
Men who desire to attain the sun-like heaven make the mountains a cannon, a wooden pillar, by placing two agnis of snow and summer. To get the ghee of the rainy season, both of them perform yagya for agni and ajya dev. (47)
The gods performed yajan (yagna) with an animal in the form of agni. He who has agni in it wins and will win in this world. Hosts adopt this knowledge. The gods performed yajna with an animal in the form of air. He in whom the wind prevails wins and will win. Hosts adopt this knowledge. The gods performed yajna with an animal in the form of sun. The one in which the sun element is predominant, wins and will win. Hosts adopt this knowledge. (17)
The cause of the whole creation appeared in the form of the sun at the beginning of Brahman creation. Its sharpness is without limitation, which pervades all directions and worlds. He is unique. Truth is born out of this and asat is absorbed in it. (1)
The moving som reaches the Dashapavitra like the water flowing below and permeates Indra for the purpose of pleasing. 
The supreme man is thousands of heads, thousands of eyes and thousands of legs. That supreme man surrounds the entire universe and is installed above ten fingers. (1)
Oh, lingering Mon! You fall around us as a stream and give us vast wealth and glorious heaven through your stream. 
The ignorant stota similarly wants you to know the way of service to the omniscient. All but them are ignorant. Uninvaded by the enemy they soon do grace the hymn. 
The gods appointed two autumn months as its protectors from the north side and made Shyt and Naudhas its ritualists. (10)
Not by study of the Vedas, nor by the performance of sacrifice, rituals, or charity, nor even by practicing severe austerities, has any mortal ever seen what you have seen, O best of the Kuru warriors.
 O Indra! You praise us. You give the best happiness. We pray to you, because no one is so rich and soothing except you. 
We shelter the best, the protector of all and the worthy of choice. This wealth is protected by friends, Varun and Aryama. 
Remove the suffix of Rudra Dev's bow. Please take off your bow they are wearing. Please let go of your sharpness with the arrows in your hand. (9)
May yajna increase all happiness. May yajna increase all the joy. Yajna should increase all kinds of enthusiasm. May all favorable wishes increase with yajna. May yajna increase all harmony and desires. May yajna increase all good fortune. May yajna increase all the glory. May yajna increase all gentleness. May yajna increase all credit. May yajna increase all the happiness of the house. May yajna increase all success. May yajna bring us to fruition in all its ways. (8)
 We invite Som, Raja, Varuna, Agni, Aditi's son, Vishnu, Surya and Brahma to remember them again and again. That is, all these gods are invited by praises. 
The little bird ate your poison and did not die. In the same way, we will not die either. Oh poison! The sun that is moved by horses destroys the poison from a distance. Their honeybeing makes you nectar. 
I am transcendental to the perishable world of matter, and even to the imperishable soul; hence I am celebrated, both in the Vedas and the Smṛitis, as the Supreme Divine Personality.
O revered Indra! Let us be your stota dearest of you with this money-worthy hymn. Pratardan's son, Kshatriyashri, is our king. They may be the best in the destruction of enemies and in the benefit of wealth. 
Yama's word - If this man who has come is mine, then I should give him a place. Now it has come to me. If it keeps praising me, it can stay here. (37)
 O Mon! You are the destroyer, divine and struggling of Vritrasura unfriendly 
Hey Mon! You are full of desire and bright. O glorious and wishful Mon! You possess the useful deeds of gods and human beings. 
In space, the chariot of Adityarupi Agni sees the great and huge task of adding horses and the ropes of the chariot are visible. 
 May the golden rays, the golden rays, along with Usha, please bring these happy Ashwini Kumars to our yagna to sompan. 
Prajapati made thirty-three dev lokas from this odan as a gift to the whole world. (3)
I pronounce the stotra that Indra receives very well. Indra is strong, quick for Sompan and great in qualities. Indra is like praises and he has a journey everywhere. Just as food inspires the hungry, I praise Indra, who desires. I present somersa etc. havi given by the former hosts for Indra. (1)
O Indra! You are the giver of food grains like horse, go and barley etc. You are the master of wealth and the guardian of all for residence. You are the leader of charity and the ancient God. You fulfill the wishes of the hosts who give the greetings by giving them the fruits of the favor and are as dear to them as a friend. We use words of praise for this type of Indra. 
Just as a young woman who loves a body subdues men, Indra controls humans. Indra gives people the knowledge of time. Indra's donations are beneficial. 
The sage born in the Vasishtha dynasty has worshipped the godless without death. They are located in all the realms of God. They give us more rewarding food today. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
O Lord of wealth Indra! We praise your old and new courageous deeds. You did those deeds. O Indra of Vajra! You possess strange waters for men, subduing the earth and the sky. 
O very seminal herb! The way a mongoose cuts a snake into pieces and then connects, in the same way due to the alienation of the woman cause sexual disorder, take the disorder away from me and reunite me with my wife. (5)
O godly agni! Give us the best wealth in wealth. The time you get ignited, give the best money at that time. Spread out towards the house of the rich stota with shobhan to give money to both your beautiful arms. 
O Praisers! Worship thoroughly the army that moves ahead of Indra's chariot. Indra does not run away even when he comes near the enemy forces. He destroys enemies. He know our works. The strings attached to the bows of the enemies should be destroyed. 
O Haridra! You are praiseworthy in other disguises because of the unfailing power and are the main of the viruddhas, just as the moon and the sun are the main due to the time division of night and day. (2)
He surrounds the unpleasant enemy with the blue part and pierces those who hate his red part. This is what the Brahmavadi people say. (8)
We speak devotional hymns for the meritorious, the holy, the workable and the young agni. The sage Gavishtira speaks a salutation to the agni like aditya, who is bright and fast in the sky. 
I please Indra with my praise. Indra is also going to violate the bright enemies. They give food and fame to those who praise. I also provide havi to Indra. (3)
Brahma built this altar. Hiranyagarbha installed it and the Maharishis conceived this altar to cook The Brahmaudana. You sit near this altar that holds the parts of gods, ancestors and human beings and cook this part of the gods. (23)
Show me the vampire who falls from space, who moves above heaven and believes the earth to be under his control, so that I can solve it. (9)
Vayu Dev is the overswami of space. May they protect me in this Vedokta Paurahitaya karma, in prestige, in resolve, in divine deeds and in action as blessings. (8)
In the space that showers thousands of streams, the rays of the present Somers make the earth located below. Located in the high place of Dulok, the solemnly tongued somersa's own rays, separated from each other, never dropped the eyelid while moving fast. In this way, the rays of Soma obstruct sinners from place to place. 
Due to the desire to go to Ritviz Dyulok, the Home Editor worships Agni as a king, because he desires food for the gods and the praise-worthy human beings by many people through their own physical strength. Fire is the world form. 
Dyavapathavi is always a peoplely and conscious sister living in a couple of places, whom the rays separate. The light rushes that know your trade are spread out in the shining sky. 
 O Mon! You are holy, wavy, vast and king. You are established in the yagna for the drinking of friend and Varun Dev. 
Fire is energetic. Call upon them to give havi. They protect our body and fulfill our wishes. (44)
O agni! Adityas have made you happy. O poet! The Holy Gods have made your tongue. Due to the havan of the yajna, the gods gathered wait for you in the yajna and the given havi devours through you. 
O boy! I give you autumn, autumn, spring and summer. O boy! In the rain in which the means of enjoyment, wheat, wheat, etc. increase, those years should be happy for you. (22)
Hey Indra and Varun! Our mind longs for your best service. You give us happiness. 
The god who is the presiding deity of life and the sapta rishis with divine qualities should not leave us. May we receive sages from all sides, the protectors of bodies. May they give us extreme lifespan for life. (3)
Just as the horse overtakes the yoke of the chariot while walking, so som goes to the devas by crossing the dashapavitra. 
 O Indra! O agni! The host has a desire for you. Please come to us with your dynamic means to get a boost soon and help the donors. 
Brahma enters that luminous, destroyer of sin, covered with fame and hiranyamaya puri. (33)
If you remember me always, by my grace you will overcome all obstacles and difficulties. But if, due to pride, you do not listen to my advice, you will perish.
Those who sound like murga, who are vampires called kakundhs and who wear corrupt deeds, who dance like vampire eunuchs and lunatics, and who make a hue and cry in the forest, I drive them away from the womb. (11)
Squeezed Soma drips into the vessels for Indra to prepare for battle. Just as Indra knows the whole world, similarly victorious Soma knows Indra. 
O Indra with more wealth! All hosts hold the money you have given. You be my partner. 
O Yama, the character of the yajna! You pour out juice for Indra and other gods and wish to give us food. 
Just as a man plucks flowers to make garlands from a tree, I accept the fate and glory of this woman. Just as the mountain buried deep inside the earth remains stable, in the same way, this woman with bad luck should stay in the father's house forever, that is, she should never see the face of her husband. (1)
Indra has created barley, wheat etc. for the consumption of animals. It was Indra who created the flora and days. They have protected everyone's benefactor space. Indra ripped off the asura named Bal and killed those who performed the rituals of the opponents. (10)
The armor that the body-bearing gods sitting in heaven wore to protect their bodies while fighting with the asuras, the armor that Indra also wore, that armor should protect us from all sides for the sake of fighting. (3)
O Indra! We should cross the evil sense gained due to poverty through animals and calm our hunger with food. While winning from the opponent player in gambling, we should get the excellent wealth located in the kings from the powerful dice. (10)
The air should not run much on the ground, that is, people's sleep should not be broken due to strong wind. None of the sleeping people could see others. O Indra's friend Vayu! You should put all the nearby women and dogs to sleep by staying present in the body in the form of prana vayu. (2)
O Indra! You had grinded the abode with your vanja in the wake of the Shushna Asura. This is indra worthy of being called by both the stota and the yajnakarta! You chased the shushna asura by being stunning. 
Hey Ritvijo! It was for your welfare that Jupiter had separated the pattern from the constant and strange knowledge and the door of the annual flood. Jupiter made this knowledge a matter of mantra, so that the earth and the sky could keep pleasing each other. 
O agni! You are welfare and fruitful in yajna. You are skilled and work seeker. Like a charioteer, you are the operator of Rita's huge chariot. (45)
This is the first one! Protect my hymn willing to perform yajna and strive to please you. I will praise you with great food and admired by many people through huge hymns with the desire for food. 
O men! He who strengthened the fickle earth, regularized the angry mountains, created vast space and stabilized the sky, he is Indra. 
 Hey friend! O Varuna! We worship both of you gods and all other gods on the occasion of sunrise. You are an enemy destroyer. 
 O Mon! You are a weapon and are mixed with cow's milk. The waves of you are similar to the waves of the sea and the king. You sit and adorn in turiya dham 
O Mon! Your best parts stay in heaven and receive havya and from there they have fallen to the high places of the earth and become trees. Stones feed you and intelligent people extract your juice with their hands on cow's leather. 
Indra Dev, Agni and Brihaspati Dev have installed you here. You fill the feet of the people, you be brave and please sit here. (59)
May the violenceless Indra, who protected us in ancient times to get food, make us happy forever. 
O Takma! You go away from the moong region or the outer country or even from it. You meet the maid in the child's stage and shake her. (7)
O soul making sound! Salutations to you, salutations to you who enter the cloud and rain. Salutations to you while lighting and raining in the form of electricity. (2)
It is better to do one’s own dharma, even though imperfectly, than to do another’s dharma, even though perfectly. By doing one’s innate duties, a person does not incur sin.
O mon crushed! You fall down as the stream. Bring you a force of radiance with the wealth of the heavenly and the earth. 
Som told me that all the medicines and agnis that make the world happy live inside the water. 
Some people have a reputation as a recipient of the best impression in the circle of scholars. They are not neglected in any work. Some people serve fruitless and floral voice. His voice is not the real Dhenu, but mayarupini Dhenu. 
The one who owns a part of the property goes to the owner of the two parts of the property to ask for it. After this, the one who owns the two part property goes to the three-part property holder. The holder of the four parts property goes to the other than himself. Similarly, in lined form, the smaller goes to the big one to ask for. 
Like the pillars buried in the Yagya, beautiful and colorful lights surround the east direction. Ushas 
O agni! You protect us from the violent. O mighty agni! You save us from sin. You get it as a lossless grain. We received thousands of types of cultivable money. 
O brothers! I have accepted three and eight chariots and precious cows for you according to the foregoing. Like all the sons of Angira, the people, be with mutual affection and wish for glory, including the vehicles full of food. 
At the time when many Brahmins with the same knowledge gather to consider the merits of the Vedas understood by the heart, at that time, some have special knowledge and some walk around knowing the meaning of a hymn. 
By the grace of Vishnu, hosts complete their fasts on their trust. Look at the works of Vishnu. They are the suitable friends of Indra. 
But the fruit gained by these people of small understanding is perishable. Those who worship the celestial gods go to the celestial abodes, while my devotees come to me.
This yogurt mixed has been squeezed only for somers Indra. O Lord Indra! Come to the yajnashala with your horses to drink this som for pleasure. 
 O Indra! We worship you. The host Brahmins perform yajna. They offer sacrifices filled with honey and chi in the yagna and we give money in the form of havi. Get som fame. 
The drunk somras has lifted me up in the same way that the fast-moving horses lift up the chariot. I've been to sompan several times. 
O heaven and the earth! Provide a great amount of money for this king of mine like Dharmadugha Gau. May this king become very dear to Indra and because of that I should be dear to cows, herbs and animals. (4)
I put these waters, which are sinless and sanctify others with my contact and are worthy of yajna, in the hands of Brahmins for the purpose of washing. O burn! May Indra fulfill my wish, free from the deserts, with the desire with which I sprinkle you all over at this time. (27)
O Indra! You worship Usha and illuminate the sun by becoming the desiror of Soma. O Indra, who has horses named Hari, a scholar and who knows our desire! You increase all our assets. 
O Indra! We give the famous grain of praise to the rich sages who sing and contain powerful horses. You give us the grains and the cows that are easily milked and make them bright. 
The sons of earth-celestial parents sleep in the west direction while hiding the sun. In the rising period, they walk in the sky without sun bondage. All this work belongs to a friend and Varun. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O Mon! Destroy our relative who wants to experience us and the evil enemy who obstructs us, just as the world destroys through thunderbolts. (3)
O God of fire! Those who do not consider you masters, who do not give dakshina for the best yajna, and who do not praise the gods, do not give money to those who do not praise the gods. 
The lights and routine agnis are located in the house of the hotas, completing the yajna yajnas. Fires that increase due to agonizing are known and illuminated by all things. 
O teacher! Squeeze the most sweet, the elixir of heaven and the perfect Soma for the vajjdhari Indra. 
O son of strength, agni! How can we give you the greetings that suit the host's mind? When do I say this greeting? 
Hey Mon! Women like my fingers, who are efficient and friendly, inspire your erosion by the desire to squeeze your juice. You are a man of adornment, a man of adornment, a nurturer of all, a great and a radiant. 
Indra's womb, which drinks someras, grows like a kakud i.e. a bull with a lump and an ocean that holds more water. (3)
O king! Do not be reluctant to the throne and riders like elephants, chariots, horses etc. You are powerful and have knowledge of work inefficiency. You are enemies, sit on the throne and do the welfare of your friends. Indra Adi Dev call you your own. (2)
The first thing that arose in Supreme being's mind was the desire to create creation. The desire in supreme being's mind first became the seed of creation. The scholars in the heart with wisdom, sought the cause of the truth. 
 O Mon! You are holy and omniscient. Like the sun, your rays are spreading from heaven. 
Those who grind and feed poisonous herbs, those who use poison as a paste, who throw poison from a distance and who stay close and mix poison in food, fruits, etc., I have made all these powerless with the effect of my mantra. I have also made the mountains where poison was produced in the form of tuber origin, powerless. (7)
O agni! Praise the gods for giving us sons and long life and please them with food. O burning agni! For the benefit of our crops, inspire the rain, donate food and give wealth to the great lord, for you are the doers of good deeds and the beloved of the gods. 
O agni! You are the light and the world form. You are the same of all the gods. You destroy enemies with Som. You destroy evil deeds. Please take us to a safe place. You swaha for the force thriving. You are endowed with many sacrifices. You are a knower. Swaha for you. (35)
From all sides, the curvy Usha is rising in front of everyone and is growing up by holding on to the bright fast. The golden-coloured, the seeable, the bright, the mother of the vanis and the leader of the day, Usha, is adorned. 
O Ashchinikumaro who holds gold ornaments for shobha! You fill me with honey collected by bees, so that I may utter a loud voice to men. (19)
O Goddess! Cut off the shoulders and head of the kidnapper who committed the crime, Dev Violent. (4)
O great and great Indra! I call you to drink somras in the same way that the cow is called to eat grass. 
O herb obtained by digging! Like the masses, we also remove your poison from the body through our mantra power and establish it away. Be as firm as a tree in your place and do not make this man faint. (5)
O agni! Your pure, shuklavarna and bright rays inspire your brightness. 
O revelation-door form, a agni that is performed by a wide variety of men with salutations and a agni easily attainable by the people! You open up. You become especially famous, taking the form of a son of broad, indestructible and adorned with a son of hosthood. 
In the war, the indra whose enemies run away after seeing his chariot with the horses, praise the same indra. 
O god! May you be fortunate to eat the best grass and make us rich. You should always eat the grass and become blessed. O cow! Eat grass all the time and drink clean water moving all around.
O Indra! The force with which you created the great waters that fill the ocean, that force of yours gives everyone the desired fruit. The glory that we forgetful people sing to you cannot be well known by others, that is, enemies. (4)
 O Indra! O agni! You are satisfied with vritranash. No one can defeat you. You give abundant wealth to worshippers. We worship you. 
Herbs and trees have come with the most power called Ajshringi, Arataki and Sharp Shringi. Escape the demons from this place. (6)
Some horses move to the earth's final boundary and some are added to the chariot's juer. When the sun is located in the chariot as the controller of the chariot, the devas relieve the labour by giving grass to the horses. 
O Indra! In your somras we live like birds and praise you for the sake of being cured and heavenly mixed with cow's milk and curd. 
O Jupiter! You and Indra are the masters of both earthly and divine wealth. That's why you give money to praise. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
Swaha for god who paints light like gold. Swaha for the sun like gold. Swaha for the god who shines like gold. Swaha for the god with a light like gold. Swaha for the sun god like gold. (50)
Then, the grand old man of the Kuru dynasty, the glorious patriarch Bheeshma, roared like a lion, and blew his conch shell very loudly, giving joy to Duryodhan.
The nectar-like form of this yajna was streamed by the three gods like Shachi etc. He discovered it, many types of grass follicles were the hairs of his body. Manifested the skin in the yajna. Laja became their flesh. (81)
O Indra, who has been called many times by the gods and the mighty Indra! The gift that you gave to the gods by killing Vritra alone is only right. O Maghvan, your glory in the people is famous that you mix the earth and the sky without limits. 
O mortal Indra! Those who desire you again and again for the sake of wealth, no sin goes to that dying person. Please be kind to the hosts. Make the people among whom we are praising, make them your own and give strength. 
O Indra! Come before us by your own strength as masters of all the worlds. O the conqueror Indra! You kill the enemies. 
Hello is the most. That's why I greet. It is the salutation that holds the earth and the heaven. Greetings to the gods. Greetings are the lord of these gods. I remove sins by greetings. 
O wound healing million! You are horse-colored and water trees. You are about to move, so come near to us as a bird. (9)
Besides, considering your duty as a warrior, you should not waver. Indeed, for a warrior, there is no better engagement than fighting for upholding of righteousness.
The man who does the friend and Varuna in front of him to fulfill the desire of the host, thus prepares the havi for the yajna, it is true. 
O agni! You are always delightful like the grass that reinforces the animals. You become the ones with the adornment of the human beings. You go with many gods praising the hymns of the Stota and consuming the havya. 
O Maruto! The stota you protect is the owner of hundreds of riches. By protecting you, he becomes an invader, an enemy-defeater, a courageous man and a master of thousands of riches. Protected by you, he becomes emperor and shanruhanta. O you who tremble, Marutto! Increase the money you've given. 
O aschinikumaro! Let your chariot come to this place. He is faster than the chariots of other gods, who begs our interests, despises our opponents, and is a matter of praise among all hosts. 
You have a right to perform your prescribed duties, but you are not entitled to the fruits of your actions. Never consider yourself to be the cause of the results of your activities, nor be attached to inaction.
Delightful as the growth of the fruit of agni, as wide as the earth, like a mountain He is the one who gives food to all and is as pleasant as water. the ever-moving horse in battle and who can stop the fast-moving fire like running water? 
Varuna, the god of heaven, has preached to me. Through their words I remove your poison. I take the poison that is above the flesh or inside the flesh. Just as water is destroyed when it falls into the sand, so your poison is destroyed. (1)
O Indra! We hold your intellect. You are great and capable of sustaining the earth. We praise you. The courageous Indra Dev suppresses the enemies who hurt us at the time of celebration and delivery. Devgan also sings the virtues of Indra Dev with joy. (29)
Hey Mon! Patient people with certain desires have satisfied you by performing yajnakarma. You are great and intelligent. If you are intoxicated with Somras, give us a goshala and horse with cows, because you are great. 
O Indra and Agni! The mantra knower, etc., and the known stothas of the hymns worship you. I also choose you in all respects to get food. 
 O Indra! You are going to have a beautiful chin and a beautiful crown. The hosts are particularly skilled in giving havi. You took somers made from milk and barley. 
Indra gave innumerable good money to the host who gave the havya and killed the asura named Vritra. When there was a competition among the stotas to get the sun, Indra supported everyone by being the reason for it. 
Whoever comes out between Me and agni or who crosses My shadow, I will cut off the root of him and will never shadow him. (57)
 O Mon! You are pleasant. We pray for the bondage of demons who have become hostages with difficulty. Wish for the destruction of avratis 
O agni! I have come with milk etc. I will reveal Madhu and be stunning through her. Establish in me sharp with your word. (14)
O Indra with more wealth! We squeeze the somras and praise you and collect food for you. You give us the property you want. Protected by you, let us get the money ourselves. 
While pleading, The Son of The Tugrah had resorted to the insatiable chariot that was built in the middle of the water and the tree. What was that? Just as the falling sacrifices lift the animal by holding it with horns, etc., you have achieved great success by protecting Bhujayu. 
He should never be free from the traps of death. (32)
O Indra! Drop your thunderbolt down from space. Make that thunderbolt as sharp as Somdev did. You destroy the demons in all directions east, west, north and south with that sharp thunderbolt. (19)
O agni! We will become the best by gaining the power of adornment from the food, horse, etc. you have given us. This will make it light up our infinite wealth above the five jatis brahmins, kshatriyas, vaishyas, shudras, nishads which are difficult for others to get. 
These god armies are of similar mind and the sun is seated in their flag. May these armies conquer the enemies. This sacrifice of mine is acceptable. (12)
Those who swoop like monster dogs and who want to do violence to the non-violent Indra, Indra intensifies his thunderbolt to kill those hypocrites. Indra throw his thunderbolt quickly at those demons. 
O God of fire born of yajna and divine! Those who praise you for confirming the body, you protect them from violent, thieves, etc. and blasphemous people. You become the obstacle of the one who conducts deviously in front of you. 
In the yajna, we beg for the desired fruit from the agni that is ignited, with the hair of the flame, worshipped by the purifiers and the stothas. 
Hota performed yajna for the botanical god. Like a bound animal, the plant should be able to stay in its place (stable). Where The Havi of Chhag is the favorite dham of Ashwini Kumar, where the beloved dham of Goddess Saraswati of Aries is the favorite dham of Goddess Saraswati, where Rishabh's havi is the favorite dham of Indra Dev, where there is the favorite dham of Agni, where there is the favorite dham of Som, where there is the favorite dham of Sunrakshak Indra Dev, where Savita Dev's favorite dham is.  Where there is the favorite dham of Barun Dev, where there is the favorite dham of Vanaspati Dev, where there is a favorite dham of the drinker of ghee, where there is agni, there is a favorite dham of them, the gods receive the best bhavi by presenting and unpresenting. You should also perform a similar yajna. (46)
O tree called Shami! Whatever your mind wants is the one that produces and increases the hair and through which you please the man in all ways, I also cut the forests away from you. Hey Shami! You grew up with a hundred branches. (2)
O girl! Everyone's motivator Savita Dev bring the desired groom for you. He should also marry you and take you home. O herb! You provide husband for this virgin. (8)
Apart from those who saw water around the earth, who gave birth to those who performed yajna, who is the sole deva of the gods, for which deity should we now pray? (26)
 We want to wear the varenya tej of savita devta, who orients and inspires our intellect towards the best path. 
The sun drove his chariot in the sky and saw that the Aryans were facing the enemies. Indra destroyed the power of the elusive raksash Pipru by befriending Rijishva. 
O you who protect you soon, Maruto! We ask you for money. Through him we can expand our family like the sunkirans. O Maruto! You like this praise, so that we may cross a hundred hemants. 
Oh, god of desire! We pray for the purpose of our yajna to get your huge protection. 
We describe the origin of the gods in clear terms. These gods will see the stotha at the time of the pronunciation of the hymns in the future. 
 Someras is holy and filtered. Making a sound in the sieve, he is filtered with a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
Anjan, born on earth, is welfare and brings men to life. May this anjan make us without death, fast-paced like a chariot and without sin. (3)
O agni! We remove sin, god and death. We also overcome our enemies. Those who are our enemies, we send them towards you. You eat them. (3)
O Indra and Varundev! The man whose yajna you go to and desire does not possess sin, the fruits of sin and the wrath of sin. He doesn't even have any kind of obstacle. 
That soulful bird holds the word in the mind itself. Gandharva told this to her in the womb. Scholars protect that glistening, heaven-giving and the lordly voice of growth in the path of truth. 
Agni is a poet, meritorious, powerful and rich. We worship them with words. That's how we worship agni. We worship them with glory. We worship for the agni that illuminates heaven. (25)
O great Indra and Varun! Today in the yajna, the same somras have been prepared for you by the ritvijas, which is done for greatness and happiness after the kush is laid by the host like Manu. 
Oh, lingering Mon! You give everything to the host. You were great when you were born. Radiant Mon! You defeat all the enemies with your own speed. 
O serpent named Arbudi! Make all of our enemies who are brave cowards, who run away from war, hear nothing out of fear, do not harm like animals without horns and say words like sheep, make them all defeated by your maya. O serpent! Show our shanrus a bad omens like meteorites through your maya. (22)
Let the agni with rich and sharp teeth destroy them with the most tempestuous radiant, who condemn the knowing friend and varun's beloved and dhruvatej. 
The water, the deities, the greats and the prajapatis, the brahma, as well as the soul, all of them entered the man's body. (30)
This is the sage! You praise the visible, the electric ordnance-wearing, the wise and the creator of all, by delightful sentences. 
O Indra, who does many things! There are many hopes related to you and the psalms call you. So you should despise the sacrifices of our enemies and come to our sacrifices. O very powerful Indra! Listen to my call. 
We remove the disease that pervades you husband and wife, which is in your vagina and in your thighs. (14)
Those who are our former ancestors are gentle, happy, somerous drinkable, healthy. Please come with our father Yama for them. Please accept Havi and destroy the enemy. Be the one who fulfills the wish. (51)
O fire! You are praised by us and listen to our call. You inform the worthy and bright gods of the yajnakaras of the host. The devas had given the famous cow to the Angiragotrian sages. Aryama milked that cow for fire along with other gods. They know that cow and me. 
O agni! Your sharp rays eat forests with teeth like that of animals. 
They run towards Dashapavitra like a horse leaving the dripping and dripping mons. Som runs like a buffalo sharpening his horns and like a cow-seeking knight. 
O obuman! You're confirmed, let me know the confirmation too. You are a housewife, make me a householder. You give us money. Give us such money that our sons, grandsons, servants, etc. are strengthened. O Mani! I bind you to the growth of wealth. (13)
O Jativeda and the bright agni! Consume purodash at the time of the afternoon yajna. O great agni! Karmakushala Adhwaryu must give your share in the yajna. 
O Narada! This dhenu should roam for three years without knowing the disease or eat grass etc. After this, the host should consider this Dhenu as a matter and search for Brahmins. (16)
Peacock-colored and white-backed horses should carry Indra in a chariot made of gold to drink the praiseworthy sweet somras. 
Swaha for those who love month, day and year. Swaha for Usha Devi, who loves red rays. Swaha for Ashwini Devas who love medical work. Swaha for the sun gods who love horses. Swaha for agni dev who loves ghee. (74)
O sun! You are the star, the visible to the world and the inventor of light. You are going to illuminate everyone with your light. (36)
O act! The man-eating eater has placed you on the male bone or on the illuminated agni. We return you to him who sent you. (9)
The Adityas with the five feet of the three phases and the twelve figures of the months reside in the latter half of the sky. Some people also call him Jaldata. Some people also call Tejashwi Aditya sitting on a chariot with six arrows and seven chakras 
O Indra! You saved the calm, the best-quality and the submerged shachitra for the purpose of getting territory. Those who have been at war with us for many days and have enmity with us, give them pain and suffering. 
O Anjan! Whether you are said by humans to belong to The Trikkud Mountain or yamuna. Both your trikkud and yamun names are welfare. Protect us by your two names. (10)
He who has acted on us has not been able to destroy our finger or foot. He should not succeed in his convention and we could not insult the lucky. (11)
O specially wise Mon! You must reach the Dasapavitra as a stream and give us food and fame. 
We ask for our desired things from the agni, the bright, the ones who call the gods, the hostile, the flag-filled, with the radiant wealth and like the flag of the yagnas. 
Hey Ritvijo! Go near the agni in such a way that the agni increases our duty. We will become food-eaters from the agni-related yagnas. 
O vasishthaputras! Your glory is as illuminated as the sun and as serious as the ocean. No one else can guess your glory like the air velocity. 
Self-respecting, meritorious and learned people please the agni through yajnako to get food. 
Varun, the supreme brother of the gods, grew up to be admired by salutations and shobhan praises. The stream of milk of the milch cow flowed for their yajna. 
When The Deeptishali Som is holy, he goes to the kalash by defeating the enemies, making all the paths easier for the welfare of the host. The beautiful and bright Som goes to dashapavitra made of sheep's hair, sporting like ash and making his look like a godly look. 
Neither the sun nor the moon, nor fire can illumine that supreme abode of mine. Having gone there, one does not return to this material world again.
The one who hid in the mountain for forty years and killed Shambar Asura, who killed the powerful tree that destroyed the destroyer, is Indra. (11)
This vegetation has received from preventing monsters and vampires to us. He should make us high-pitched and conquer all worlds. (15)
Somwan is swadha and namaskar for the ancestors. (73)
O proud God of anger! By Your grace, while suffering the enemy of the chariot, happy and full of anger, with sharp arrows and intensifying the edge of the armaments, our men should by Your grace become as fast as air and undefeated as agni and go to the enemy. (1)
At the time when the Devas expanded the imaginary yajna and tied the virat purush as Balipashu, at that time seven perimeters and twenty-one samidhas of the yajna were made. 
O furious Indra! The skin made a thunderbolt of a thousand edges and a hundred pieces for you. O Indra who receives the monotonous part of Somalatha! You had grinded the vritra by the thunderbolt to take on the enemies with a certain desire by that thunderbolt. 
O man assumed by the guilt of the act! The only apamarga is going to control all herbs. We remove diseases etc. caused by witchcraft in you with the help of apamarg. After this, you become disease-free and roam around. (8)
We serve the air of ours, the air of life, the living beings who hold the air, the highly occupied Saraswati through ajya etc. (2)
This is the leader! Just like the ritual called the cause of the desired attainment, I pledge to sacrifice your angiravanshi kambivan. You filled hundreds of pitchers for those who were expected of the honey coming out of the hooves of the horses. 
O Lord Indra and Jupiter! All your praises are true. Water cannot destroy your fast, just as the horses that are ploughing in the chariot run towards the grass, so come before our havi. 
O mighty Indra! The Ushijavanshis, who wore food from your protection and possessed the people, were located in the houses of the hosts with the desire to perform yajna. They were pleased with your praise as well. 
O Indra! When will you remove those who do not praise like minor plants? When will you hear the praise of us who worship? 
I request the fire of worship and worthy of yajna in the devas to tell them my point of view as the messengers of the gods. O fire! Where did you go to the welfare that you used to do to the stoetas in the past? Who possesses that quality now? O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
O shining agni! Give adult, bright and powerful wealth to the host who gives the greetings to the gods. 
O Lord of Power Indra! Give us the desired results through all your defense tools. O Shura, successful and wealthy Indra! We will serve you like luck. 
I call indra, the leader, who sits in the main place of the yagna and listens to the orderly praises of human beings, to drink somras in the hope of getting great wealth. 
O Indra! You go before the enemy, confusing the hearts of our enemies and resolving to destroy them in your mind. You destroy the enemy army by forcing it to flee from the war with your speed, which is fierce to consume with the help of agni and air. (3)
I admire the strange bright, delightful, pleasing, guest-like, deserving and hateless agni as the sun. The agni world-wearing and the mourners sing and give the semen to the hosts. They would and are homeowners. 
O character! We accept you for the happiness of Aditya Dev. Aditya Dev is calm, blissful and welfare of gods and human beings. (3)
Earth, water, fire, air, space, mind, intellect, and ego—these are eight components of my material energy.
The Maruts had combined the waters in the widest of herbs, placed the dyava-prithvi in place, placed the sun in their place, and wore a thunderbolt to break the circles into pieces. 
The agni induced by the wind takes on the crestial armament and due to the great speed, attacks the juice of wet trees and defeats the animals that are everywhere, in the same way as the bull reaches the herd of cows. All are afraid of agni and agni. 
The one who has light in his mouth, such a agni is going to give us happiness. Friends, Varun and Ashwinikumar be the reason for our happiness. May the best deeds of those who do virtuous deeds give us happiness. Moving air should run for the purpose of our happiness. (4)
Hey Aditya! Give us the happiness that you have like the wings of birds. O Aditya, lord of all wealth! We ask you for all the suitable property of the house. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
Swaha for Yama Dev. Swaha for the intudent. Swaha to death. Swaha for Brahmin. Swaha for the peace of Brahmahatya. Swaha for the worlds. Swaha for heaven. Swaha for the earth. (13)
Vajrabahu Indra had immersed the people named Shrut, Kawash, Old Day in the water. Those who praised you on this occasion became friends with you and friendly you. 
Woodcutters for agni, those who burn agni for light, those who rain water for heat, those who surround for happiness like heaven, those who make beautiful shapes for Devlok, those who spread for manlok, those who give satisfaction to all the worlds, those who make a hue and cry for slaughter should be appointed. To get intelligence, one should follow the knowledge of painting for textile elution, beauty. (12)
O Ashwinikumaro! Bring my desired woman to me and meet me. May the fate of both of us get together. Our mind and deeds should also be the same. (2)
Hey Mon! When you meet in the water with words, we squeeze you on the dashapovittra made of sheep's hair, saying more words and doing more words. 
This stotao! Just as grass gives happiness to the cow, so so does Someras make Indra happy. On going to Somras Nichud, this hymn is pleasant for the enemy-destroying and charitable Indra, called by many. You guys call Indra. 
 O Indra! You are powerful. You are not friends with those who are proud of money. You are not even friends with those who make you suffer by drinking sura. Those who walk together with the wise, the qualities, you love them as a father. 
Indra, who defeats the violent, always liberates the water when the sun is south-seated, with the constant fasting force. Thus the generated water is never rolled back to get into the calm sea daily. 
May Aryama, Bhaga, Jupiter, other gods and Satyarupa Saraswati Devi give us wealth. 
O destruction! You sit and be seated and stable on the seat of happiness for our Soma. You especially get a group of namkartak mantras originated in the pre-day period. Just as a scholar walking on the path of dharma attains the desired results, I greet you with the hymns. You receive these hymns. You be steady for our Mon. Listen to this hymn of ours without death. (39)
 O Indra! You are our leader. Please be ahead of Jupiter. Som is the operator of the South Yagya. They should also be forward-looking. Deserts are enemies. May they be pleased to be the ones of the gods. 
O agni form Indra! We praise the sage Atri who donated unlimited wealth who is famous as the son of Agnivesh and upma. Satisfy them well with water and let them have a wealth and a radiance. 
O Maruto, who rains and vibrates like trees, the clouds! Your power is being embellished. O mutually loving Maruto! Just as the eyes show the way, so you bring us closer to delightful wealth by the simple way. 
Salutations to the one who agnid the arrow. Salutations to those who kill enemies. Salutations to the sleeper. Salutations to the one who wakes up. Salutations to the one who sits down. Salutations to the one who stays. Salute to the runner. Salutations to Rudra Dev sitting in the mind. (23)
Son of heaven, he sees everyone as the som intoxicating rasa and the bright mon enters the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
The seekers of the yajna are adorned by the ritvajas and mashed by the hands of the mons from the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
Aditya, who pleases everyone, is the first of all. This grazing world continues to move on earth and in the world. The implication is that Aditya pervades both of them. I give happiness to Aditya, who gives happiness while transmitting the earth that is the cause of all, in all directions through seven hotas. (28)
O gods worthy of yajna! We want to praise those who desire the food and strength of the praiseworthy. May we receive your strength like the horse of the chariot. 
Let the curse given to me return to the one who cursed me. May we be happy with a friend who is blessed with a man with a beautiful heart. We destroy the eyes and rib bone of the evil-hearted person who chews. (5)
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as deer and gourd grass and swan come near clean water, so come to our somras. 
This is the earth! I am telling you the truth that this agni from the aranis eats up its parents, that is, both the aranis, I do not know about The Agne God, being a human being. O agni! You are diverse and well-known. 
O cooked rice! Get up from the agni and come to the yagna altar. Raise this wife through the people of son, grandson. Drive away the demons who obstruct the yajna from this place and nurture it to make this wife better. (21)
 Someras is pure, unique, green and possesses all. He makes a sound while filtering with a sieve. 
Oh patient! I bring out the disease in each of your organs, every follicle, every joint and any part of your limbs. 
 O agni! You are holy, bright and ill-mannered. We human beings ask you for a good home. 
Indra sent money with the Maruts with the desire to give money to the psalms. Indra is as powerful as Varuna because of his sharpness. The beautiful Indra is known to be the protector at the time.  He killed a four-legged asura named Arru. 
Enemies cannot kill those who wish for welfare. He does not even know his nearest enemies. The Kshatriya who knows Mahatma Agni in this way, chants the name of Agni to live forever, the enemies are not able to kill him. (4)
Indra is worshiped with worship-related mantras. Indra is also praised in the singing of the mantras of Samaveda. Our speech also praises Indra. (4)
The gem made from tilak tree is the enemy deadly, child-giving, powerful, vegvati, defeating enemies, furious and the act sent by others is going to send the demon against him. This gem that contaminates enemies in many ways comes in front of us. (2)
 O agni! Don't turn away from us. Just as the load carries the burden, so you carry the money you have won from the Shrew group for us. 
Rudras with firm limbs, polymorphs, bright and yellow colours are adorned with jewellery made of bright and gold. The force of Rudra, the lord of the entire Bhuvanas and the bharta, is never separate. 
The two sisters have the same infinite path of movement, on which they walk one by one after receiving instructions from the sun. They are beautiful and mutually different, and do not violence to anyone by achieving one's consensus and are never steadfast. 
It is going to create us, thus taking the resolution of what we say in hand. Do not send messengers to take this resolution. (3)
O Cupid! Inspire poverty to go towards those who are my enemies. They are the ones who attain my poverty. O agni! They should remain in darkness. You consume the objects of their house. (4)
O Upvesha Deva (The wooden vessel who holds fire in the sacrifice)! You are patient. Please bear the Yagya (agni) to be performed for the deities. You leave the fire that cooks raw things and meat, that is, do not wear these two fires. Please wear Yagya-agni (Garhapatya). You are Dhruva (steady). You please stay in firmness on earth. You wear Brahmins, Kshatriyas and superior varna people. We wear you to kill our enemies. (17)
At this time, the brave Indra, filled in a white pitcher, mixed with cow's milk, containing the satiating essence and given by the Adhwaryugans, should drink sweet Soma. 
Hundred, one thousand, ten thousand, one billion and countless days pervade this sun. Those days are traumatized as soon as they see it. That is why this god, i.e. the Sun, illuminates this world. (24)
O Indra praised by many! Let us bring you before us a hundred horses praised by the sages who love the yajna to drink somers. 
Hey Mon! The juice squeezers purify your juice to get new and great food. 
Learn the Truth by approaching a spiritual master. Inquire from him with reverence and render service unto him. Such an enlightened Saint can impart knowledge unto you because he has seen the Truth.
O Jupiter and Indra! You are both masters of wealth related to the sky and the earth. Therefore, always protect me by giving money to the psalmist. (12)
O leaders of yajnakarma and stones! You become the one squeezing Shobhan Somras and squeeze the somras for Indra. You earn beautiful wealth for the divine dham and give the habitable wealth to the host who squeezes the somras. 
O Indra! You sit with us to drink the sweet mon on the go to Someras Nikud. O Dhanaswami Indra! Give the vast rakshasadhan to The Stota and sit with us on our way to Someras Nichud. 
There is the same type of water. He goes up on the hot days and comes down on rainy days. Clouds please the earth and fire satisfies the flames. 
O agni with many flames and calling upon the gods! You ignite with other radiant agnis and give us wealth. O son of strength, agni! Let us be away from the sinful enemy who covers you with a hug. 
Those who milk the havya milk from the dhenu with the name gau for the sake of the host kamvarshi Indra, they attain heaven and become poets. Holding the new force of the asuras, those Mayavis offered their form to Indra. 
This hand of my sage is lucky and better than the lucky ones. This hand of mine is a medicine to remove all diseases. The touch of this is pleasant. (6)
The thief who comes today, he ran away from us. He should go through the painful path through the path and Indra should violence him with his thunderbolt. (5)
O Mon! You spread your streams around us in the same way as streams of pleasant water are spread around the earth. 
O seeker! Be the best of all of you. Let no one be your enemy and destroy all your enemies. You become the one who subdues others among your homogeneous people. Those who tie Savita Dev Mani should do this to you. May the overstate gem protect you. (7)
The cupinjal bird periodically utters words while making a circle similar to the stota, reporting food. Just as the samagana reciter speaks both Gayatri and Trishtupa verses, the kapinjal bird also pleases the listeners by speaking both kinds of sentences. 
Whatever you do, whatever you eat, whatever you offer as oblation to the sacred fire, whatever you bestow as a gift, and whatever austerities you perform, O son of Kunti, do them as an offering to me.
Indra Dev is an arrow in his hand. They are the ones who organize the heroes, the one who conquers the organized enemies. Arrows on the enemy are sentinels, fierce and bowed. Please protect us. (35)
O cupinjal bird! You become a well-wisher and a beloved and speak in the south direction of our homes. Don't let thieves and those who speak of sin take over us. We will receive shobhan's son-grandson and speak many praises in this yajna. 
O waterer and cleansing Mon! You increase our praises. We won the wealth of the sage enemies of the Angiragotrian Amhiyu etc. 
If it kills, how does it? (10)
This is our heart dedicated to Dulok i.e. the Founder of heaven. (5)
 O Mon! You are a food provider, a wealth giver and a gemstone. Our words run towards you. You yourself are also the one who makes speeches 
Anine, who has a dark path, has created and filled the earth and sky with its far-sighted light. The Holy One is seen ending the great darkness of the night with his rays. 
In this sourced yagna, the agni is established in the next part of the somras crushed stones and kushas. I beg the Desert Brahmanaspati and other gods for selective protection. 
Indra, who is a protector, a glorifying, rich and particularly violent asuras, extended the day with his brightness. Indra, who is attracted to the praises, growing through his body and possessing various weapons, has satiated the earth and the sky from all sides. 
O agni! You have seven sages, seven tongues and seven sages. You have seven favorite dhams and seven. They treat you in seven ways. You have seven original places of origin. We offer our sacrifices to you with ghee. (79)
O leader Aschinikumaro! When did Bhuju, the son of Tugrah, who was thrown into the sea, call you not to know by praise? That's why your chariot with horses reached there. 
O agni! You are inclusive. We circle you. You are our guest. We wake you up with ghee. Please be kind to be interested in this. (30)
Give us all worldly possessions by its glory, the agni that burns woods, devoid of the attack of enemies and the undefeated agni. 
Oh, wife! The heavenly arnai that Ashwinikumar churns out, we call the same arani for the birth of your womb in the tenth month. 
Under whose influence the tears of the sun carry the sun and under whose influence the wise men get the sacrifice etc., which, despite being a light, are illuminated in many ways, o Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! You vibrate and make it weak and tie it to your loops. (17)
Hey Mon! You sing and give us horses. You tap as you stream with the grain only in a few days. 
O Ashwinikumaro! These heroic deeds of yours that I have spoken of have been said by the ancients. O work years! In praising you, let us be in the face of yajna with brave heroes 
The yajna that gives this knowledge was started by the Trikdrukas. May our vaanis increase this yajna. (3)
Ritwij squeezes the excessive juice dripping mon into the dronacals. 
The first bone on the left side is related to Indra Dev and Agni, the second bone is related to Saraswati Devi, the third bone is related to Mitra Dev, the fourth bone is water god, the fifth bone is related to Niriti Dev and the sixth bone is related to Agni and Som. The seventh bone is related to snake god, eighth bone vishnu, ninth bone pusha dev, tenth bone tvashta dev b eleventh bone indra dev, twelfth bone varun dev, thirteenth bone yama dev, right part swarglok and prithvilok left part all gods and north part other gods. (5)
May the air be pleasant for us. May the sun be pleasant for us. May The God be beneficial to us. May agni be beneficial to us. All these do not give thinking and anger to anyone on earth. (8)
O yourself, enlarged, revolutionary and sun-colored Maruto! I imagine yajna. 
O Indra! O agni! You shivered ninety cities at once. 
Those who are the owners of wealth with cows, food, sons and grandsons, residence and more food, they are the first to drink someras, please and praise charity. They give us money. 
O God! Your wide and great roaring thunderbolt, which is a hindrance, god-made and a disaster-making thunderbolt, it pervades this whole world. O God! Do not destroy our crops with this kind of thunderbolt, do not let our crops be destroyed by the rays of the sun. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Make me endowed with the deeds that are hidden in the water, in the medicines and in the vegetation. (5)
Hey, it was! Worshipable, gifted, leader of yajnakarma, characters of yajna, a sufficiently powerful yagna pot and the bright maruts by means of yajna. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You leave the other hosts and come to us, so that we may forever despise all our opponents. O aschinikumaro who destroys enemies, those with chariots of gold, masters of wealth and who flow rivers! You are a beetroudent. You hear our call. 
O Indra and Agni! You listen to the call of the Psalms and accept his praise. You are the master of all, so complete the yajnakarma. 
 O Indra! Near Someras, you remain equal in the same way as a pigeon remains with a pregnant pigeon. You are also requested to stay with our praises. 
O stones! The segment of Somalata will give you juice in the yajna. Don't be disappointed. You always have food like the food that you eat. Be as fast as the rich people always be well-being and consume the yajna of the host. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You taught the cultivation of barley by ploughing water to King Manu in ancient times. O Lord of water Ashwinikumaro! Today we praise you with the best hymns. 
O water group! You satisfy our mind, word, soul. Please satisfy our eyes and ears. Please satisfy our souls and people. Please satisfy our animals and our servants. We will never be thirsty without you. (31)
 O Indra! You come like our friend. You come with the same urge, just as a deer disturbed by thirst goes to the pond. Please do sompan near the kanvas. 
The revered, beloved, the home-fulfilling people, the blissful and the most sacrificial yajnapatra sit on the agni yajnavedi. O agni ignited in the yajnashala! We bowed our knees and sat beside you, speaking the hymn. 
O Vasishtha! You were seen by friends and Varuna sacrificing the spirit of light like electricity. He was a birth of yours. Before that Agastya brought you from your place of residence. 
The victorious deserters had joined indra while at war with Vrithra. When Vritra died, the Maruts came to know the great light called the Sun emanating from it. The ushas, knowing The Sun, went near indra. Thus Indra became the husband of all rays alone. 
O Savita Dev! The praises that we host and other people, etc., all praises are yours. Fulfill our desires and make both kinds of people rich. 
O agni! Why do you tell that story of our sin to the great and confirmatory Pusha, the revered and the havandata Rudra, the many admired Vishnu or the great Samvatsar? 
The glory of the most successful, progressive and hostile Indra is greater than the earth and the sky. There is no one to kill, nor equalize, nor shelter Indra, who is more intelligent and hostile. 
O foolproof and wise agni! We do not know your glory because we are fools, but you know our importance. They live in agni medicines and walk with the flammatic tongue eating the havya. The masters of the people taste agni offerings. 
Friends and Varuns are pleased with the host who gives the havan and accept the simple gift given by us. They never abandon him. 
O leader Maruto! To whom you give the money you have received, your protection wants from enemies in war. May your new grace come before us. O Maruto, the desire of Somapan! You come quickly. 
O agni! You were the god invoker of the host of Manu's followers and the lord of their wealth. Those followers had desired semen in their bodies with the desire to produce sons. They renounced attachments and lives with their capable sons for a long time. 
All three goddesses get an increase from Havi. They worship Indra Dev like a child. They should not break our fibers. Saraswati Devi, Bharati Devi and Ida Devi should complete our yagna with milk and havi. Protect the whole world from obstacles. (43)
O Indra! You are the king of kings and the successful. You defeat all beings with your glory. These dev-related subjects adorn you. O king! May your strength be full of life forever and devoid of old age. (2)
Those who take shelter in me, striving for liberation from old-age and death, come to know Brahman, the individual self, and the entire field of karmic action.
O herb! You are the name of Taudi and Ghritachi. With my foot downstream, I end the poison and subdue everyone. (24)
The agnis with a disgusting component are irrigated with a disgusting air. They are rochman and radiant by praises. 
There was darkness that stopped the currents of rain. The Vrithra Asura, who covered the three lokas, had a cloud in his stomach. The water which was stopped by the vritra, was poured down by Indra towards the earth. 
From this yajna, grace the agrayan, vishwa, ruv dev, vaishvanar, indra dev and agni, mahavaishva dev, maruttvaiya dev, nishkevalya dev, savitra dev, saraswat dev to be favorable to us. Please be kind to be favorable to us with this yajna. May yajna all come to fruition for us. (20)
Those who sit in the best place and think about that God, who is the well-wisher of the Brahmin and has attained it, they should worship the Lok Parmatma and make the woman also see God, who considers the people as her sister and bears the burden of it. (4)
O Maruto! Your sharpness is going to be annoying. He should not come in front of us and ruin us. You establish in us your new, selectable and indestructible force that enemies can never achieve. (2)
O men wishing for age! You experience the immortal rituals we perform. Your body is not broken by enemies and attains old age. For this, I fill your life taken away from death with life again. You should not attain the restrictive rajoguna and tamoguna of sattva guna. You don't even get violence. (1)
Meaningful words, meaningless words, words full of desires, organizing, purpose, and planning—all these entered the human body. (25)
O sage! Speak the same three words, which have Om in their front and those who harness water. The parasites produce the electric agni that lives with them and conceive in the herbs. They are quick to arise and say words over and over again like bulls. 
We worship Indra, who holds a thunderbolt in the south hand and joins horses skilled in many deeds, into the chariot. Indra appears above, shaking his beard after Sompan and giving money to the stoetas by killing various enemies through his services. 
The agnis that the host has lit are ajar. They are hostile to enemies, revered, pompous, holy, quick-bearing and nurturing bhuvan. They are as broad as ban and as vital as air. May they please fulfill our wish like Agniyaan Som. (1)
 O Indra! You destroyed Vritrasura. You are a dakshina donor. You are fixed in Dronakalsh to give the item. Someras is kept in satpatra to fulfill the wishes of the hosts. 
O destroyers of enemies! Destroy our enemies. You destroy our sin and remove the scum of nightmares from us. (24)
O Maruto! On your shoulders are adorned with a decoration called Khadi and on the scenes are the best necklaces. Just as electricity adorns with rainy clouds, so the booms are also adorned with their armaments when providing water. 
O agni! You take us on the best path. You give us money through such a route. O world! You are a scholar. We salute you again and again. We repeatedly request you. Please save us from sins. (16)
 O agni! You are praised by Brahmins. You are the seer of the world. You win us the war through horses. You are a benefactor. 
I praise Indra, the king of human beings, the destroyer of armies, the hanta of vritra, the firstborn and the mantrakarta through chariots. (4)
We become seekers of food and call anarapati and vardhanasheel Indra through such yajnas, which are performed by the incorruptible ritvijas. 
The Supreme Divine Personality said: O Arjun, The persons who are transcendental to the three guṇas neither hate illumination (which is born of sattva), nor activity (which is born of rajas), nor even delusion (which is born of tamas), when these are abundantly present, nor do they long for them when they are absent. They remain neutral to the modes of nature and are not disturbed by them. Knowing it is only the guṇas that act, they stay established in the self, without wavering.
O ashchinikumaro moving around! Follow the splendour of your arrival. Both of you accept the yajna edited in Nisha. 
For those sanyāsīs, who have broken out of anger and lust through constant effort, who have subdued their mind, and are self-realized, liberation from material existence is both here and hereafter.
 O Mon! You come and please filter indra in a 
Hey Aditya! Just as a person standing on the shore sees the water, so you look at the lowly ones. Take us on the shobhan way just as the best take the horse to the ghat. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
The enemy, Indra, shining like the sun adjacent to Usha, has appeared at this time. Let them make us happy. We also drink the hymns of eulogy somers by sprinkling it in the yagnasthala from the khuch. 
May the compassion of Friends Dev and Indra Dev, Varun Dev and Indra Dev, Dhata Dev and Indra Dev, Tvashta and Indra Dev and Indra Dev and Indra Dev increase. May the yajna increase the compassion of Vishva Dev and Indra Dev. May this yajna be all-fruitful for us. (17)
 O Indra! You protect us. By your grace, we can defeat the enemies. We are willing to kill enemies. We are ready to attack with antidote weapons. We are determined. 
May the agni with a bright, successful and beloved voice receive this blessing from the 13 months of the samvatsar from which the creatures attain power, the spring, summer, rain, autumn, hemant, five seasons imagined by Manu in the beginning of creation. (5)
May Savita, the protector of the gods and sisters, be protected by humans. We make the hymnic, meditative and supremely intelligent Savita more strong. Let us be savita's beloved for getting and collecting wealth and animals. 
O agni of friends! You sit on the kushas of yajna with the gods, full of bright brightness. 
The Father produced food. All the worlds were raised. Raised the worlds from all sides. The Supreme Father is omniscient, learned, people, guardians and growers. This sacrifice is an offering to those Supreme Father. (25)
O Lord Indra of Vajra! You free the clouds bound in the rainy season and make the mountain powerful. O mighty Indra! You hit the vitter sleeping in the water and made your power famous. 
O Indra and Varuna! All the crops on earth appear to be demolished by soldiers and their clamour is spreading in space. All the opponents of My warriors have come close to Me. O you who hear the call! Come before us with defense tools. 
Som gave the girl to Gandharva. Gandharva gave it to the agni. Agni gave it to me as a wife, including wealth and sons. 
Oh, very intoxicating Mon! You drip food and juice for Indra and are sitting in containers called Chamas. 
O inspiration of all Savita Dev! Your glory is a means to sanctify. With your radiance and inspiration, purify us for yajna, the means of happiness of this world and the hereafter. (3)
O man who makes false accusations! If I am going to hurt others or if I have done violence in a man's life, then I will die on this day. You have called me a monster in vain. In this way, you should be separated from your ten brave sons. (15)
I milk Taurus with the above mentioned symptoms in the evening, morning and afternoon. I also milk the fruits of the rituals of all the yagnas. I know the harness fruits of this Taurus that provide. (12)
One day of Brahma (kalp) lasts a thousand cycles of the four ages (mahā yug) and his night also extends for the same span of time. The wise who know this understand the reality about day and night.
Four horses, who were in the fast-moving and shobhan chariot of the very grained King Shruterva, carry the grain in the same way that the boats sent by the Ashvinikumaras carried Bhuju, son of Tung. 
These earth and sky divide all things and do not grieve even after possessing the great gods. The movable and immovable world receives the only earth. Playful birds take various forms and are located in the middle of them. 
Water god goes from south to north through the way and becomes new and takes the form of a river on the mountain in the form of rain. (41)
O aschinikumaro! Your happy and rich horse-driven chariot came before us. O work years! It is as fast as the human mind and as fast as the wind. 
Pleased to drink the squeezed Somras, the kamvarshi Indra had hit the vritra high by raising the thunderbolt, sleeping in the midst of the soothing water in space and rising in the dense darkness. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You open the closed ark for the redemption of sage Saptavadri while you are afraid and praying. 
 Som are illuminated with the sun with its brightness. In the Trityagya 
The angry Indra Vrithra goes in front of the asura and shakes him, strikes his raised chin with a thunderbolt and shows his authority and pours out the rain water. 
O praiseworthy ones! The kind of sweet word that a bird sitting on a tree with ripe fruits does, you also do the same kind of word. Just as the knife held in the hand does not stop, so your tongue also does not stop, that is, you keep pronouncing. (4)
We have come to pray for wisdom in front of a deity named Sadaspati 
The disease that reduces the power of the heart, which arises due to being under the control of work or not, we remove that balas (phlegm) disease from your organs. (8)
Fire, the nurturer of all and the angels of the gods, is essentially present in these herbs and walks between the sun as well as the earth and the sky. We look at the yajnakartas with special grace in that agni that takes on various forms. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O Indra! When you fight us with the warriors who consider you great, we will defeat those violent enemies with our hands. O Indra! If you fight with the maruts, we will win the battle of that glorious food with your help. 
I accept the herbs grown on fertile land with my good intellect and inspire them in such a way that the rivers of velocity flow. O serpent! The poison is eliminated from those herbs. (21)
I destroy worms with the same mantra force as Atri Rishi, Kanva Rishi and Jamadagni Rishi. O worms! I kill you with the same mantra power as Agastya Rishi. (10)
O father! You are som brat gonna. We are putting our mind and body in our fatherly roles towards you. Holding it. May we children continue to serve you. (56)
O Indra! In a vessel called Chamu, the somras appears as if the moon appears in the water. You drink it, because you own it. 
Oh my god! You are indra's energy, strength and semen. You are the power that makes Indra new and you are the richness of Indra. I make you capable of conquering yoga by equipping you with Kshatriya-related yogas. (2)
O agni! We perform your havan with the desire to get shobhan kshetra and shobhan marg. Enrich our wealth all over and destroy our sin. (2)
O peace-maker host! You have worn this garment to protect the vessel. By wearing this cloth, you become the protector of cows from the fear of skinning. Bum live to a hundred autumns receiving many types of sons and grandsons. Those who live for a hundred years, you should be adorned with beautiful clothes and divide the wealth into sons, friends, etc. (6)
 O Indra! We are dedicating the purodash 
The darkness of blue, yellow and red should stay away from us. I put the burning defect in this column. (48)
O Purodash! Do not let the smokey agni and smell torment you. Don't let the bright ukha hurt you. In this way, the devas accept the baked purodash well. (37)
O white-colored Usha! Seeing your arrival, two-legged humans, four-legged animals and birds with wings get involved in their respective trade. 
O God of agni! Take the greeting in your mouth, please the gods well and accept Our detailed praises. 
Some of the debtors were left out of the loan due to repayment of parental debt by son, grandson etc. after leaving the body. People without children like sons, grandsons, etc. repay the debt of money to the rich and get the heaven that they are willing to repay the debt. (2)
 O Saraswati! You are at the forefront of best work. We are good children and aspiring for charity. We invite you. 
The pure agnis of gold color and the waters from which Savita have originated, the waters in the clouds in which the agni of electricity has been produced and the waters located in the ocean, the beautiful waters that have taken the agni as the womb, those waters should be disease-killing and pleasant for us. (1)
O Indra! You have been stopped by Jupiter from going elsewhere through Sompan. O Indra! You come to hear the praises of us psalmists to strengthen the host who squeezes soma with wealth etc. (3)
Just as the war-seeking hero enters the enemy army, so Indra also enters the vast armies of asuras for the benefit of the hosts and raises ushas for those who praise. It is Indra who increases the shret color of ushas. (5)
Aditya Som from akash, milks sarpoorna ghee and milk. The immortality is produced from the core of the yajna,  Hosts with shobhandan come together to please Som. The rays of Som who lead the yagna,the protector of all, are raining water on the earth. 
May the host make me sinless. May Vasudata, Jativeda, Divyajan and all the gods make me sinless with their deeds. 
O Indra! Don't abandon us. Be pleased to drink somras with us. You become our protector. You are our brother. You don't abandon us. 
 O hosts! You praise Indra. They are the ones who drink the soma-like food offered by you and destroy the enemies. They are the ones who do hundreds of kinds of deeds and give money to human beings. 
 O agni! You protect us from the first praise. Protect us with the second praise. Protect us from the third praise. Protect us in every way with the fourth praise. O agni! You are going to protect everyone. 
Which of the deities worthy of the yajna will hear this praise? Who will accept this? In which God shall we place this very beloved, beautiful, rich, rich, good praise? 
The soma, which is worthy of desire by everyone, green and with a mottled colour, is sifted by the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. Som goes to all the gods with his intoxicating juice. 
We join our fingers in the act of squeezing the leader of the juice-squeezing force, the one who covers the waters, the one who has the grain and the sobs that make the cows milch. 
 O Mon! For the enjoyment of Indra, you filter in the kalash. Someras gives Indra the power to break the ninety-nine cities of shambar demon. 
Yami- O Yama! Who knows our first day and who is watching? Then which man can say this to others? The day is the place of friendly deity. Both of them are huge. Therefore, how do you say this in relation to men with many deeds who cause me tribulation against My will? (7)
O Indra! Let no one separate the friendship that exists between me and the sage Vimad and you. O glorious Indra! We know your gracious wisdom as the friendship of a sister-brother. May your friendship be beneficial to us. 
O Sahartu Indra! You defeat the enemies in battle. We call you to destroy the circle. 
 The hosts who religiously squeeze Someras attain bliss with vayu, indra and ashwinikumaras. 
Indra had removed the water-stopping circle with his own power. Just as indra had released the cows stopped by the thieves, so the world's protector water stopped by the potter was released. Indra gives food to the giver of the havya as per his will. 
O six kings who give food! Even the person who condemns does not speak a word of condemnation before you. 
 O Indra! You are huge and great. The host praises and worships you. Patient men do not allow Indra's bratas to waver. 
You protected Bhujyu, son of Tug, when his boat broke in the sea and took him out of the ocean with the help of horses, including chariots, who were walking in space. 
O Indra! When we are troubled by poverty and go to you and praise, that time you wake up to give us the cow. 
I sing the glory of friend and Varun. They create their form in heaven in the form of the sun, from which their glory is illuminated. The second sharp of these is black. He is wearing the rays of the sun. (2)
The people of shobhan karma and sudarshan people remember the grace that you have foretold by you and know you as great and as beneficial as the mother. The son-in-law is unique to the real and movable. You tell them the uninterrupted way of protecting them. 
Great agnis do not attack the people standing above and attain satisfaction. May we the brightest get strength. (5)
O Indra, the best of the mighty and the father of the gentlemen! Let us give money to those who praise and give deathless and comprehensive glory to the psalms. 
O agni! You ignite and take possession of the water and protect the well-being of the human-giving host. The host you go to holds all kinds of property. He puts before you your hospitality worthy. 
The wife follows her husband, wishing to move in the yagna. Indra brings this kind of mahishi. Indra's more-worded chariot should bring us wealth and scatter a variety of properties all around us. 
Seeing the cow is a friend and returning is a pleasure. (24)
With the sound of the thunder of the deserts, all the houses built on the earth and the people living in them start to tremble. 
The lies we have told in three years are going to bring new misery. May water save me from all this sin. (22)
O agni, the son of the people who call the gods and the son of strength! Just as you completed the yajna of the Manuvanshi hosts through the havans, in the same way, today complete the yajnapatra by considering the devas as your own. 
O Indra Dev! You are a food producer for us. You pave our high path. You take our enemies down the road. Give them a disadvantage. (63)
Extract i.e. sun is formed from the cow. Sam is formed from extract and speech is formed from Trishtubh. Speech leads to vaku and dwipada and chatushpada and imperishable Brahma to saptavani i.e. verses of seven types of Vedas are made. (2)
O agni! The host whose yajna you become upwelled to complete the yagna, completes his work by becoming the lord of the dwelling heroes, attains the victory achieved by the horses and is served by the knights and the wise. 
Hey Varun, friend and Aryama! You protect the world. O shobhan-led devo! Let us enjoy the favorable pleasures you have given us and avoid enemies. 
We know very well the praises that bring happiness to the hostile and eulogous Indra, like the sage Angira. We worship Indra, the inspirational and leader of all the sages who praise them through shobhan stotras. 
O Indra and Varuna! Your heavenly vast nation pleases everyone by the rain. You tie the sinners with ropeless obstacles i.e. rogadi. Let Varuna's anger go away from us and Let Indra expand our abode. 
O ashchinikumaro with the same mind! The praise we send to you, let it bear fruit for us. O ashwinikumaro with beautiful food! You protect the praise-giver. O nastyo! Our desire is dependent on yours. 
O agni! You take these beautiful things close to the gods. May each god wish us this good. 
He is going to say this to the world! It is water, it opens the water for itself. (4)
O Indra and Agni! We have heard that with the intention of distributing money to the psalms, you displayed extreme force in the circle. O you see everyone! Be happy to sit on the kushas in our yajna and drink the squeezed mon. 
Indra, adding horses to his chariot, adorns many places in the three lokas. Who is there other than Indra who can go among the stoetas and stand near their enemies? 
O Sacrificial God! Let us rise above tamaslok. Let us also look at the gods who are also welfare of gods like the sun in the vertical world. Let us see the best light. (24)
Savita is the ruler of all the products. May they protect me in this Brahma Karma, in this forefather, in this resolution, in this divine deed and in the form of blessings. (1)
When Indra, who rains more, is the one who rains a lot of water, then Pusha becomes his helper. 
Those who are animals like tigers with nails and hoofs, which are snakes etc. animals without hoofs and those who are animals like cows, bulls, buffaloes etc. with torn hoofs, their father is Dyulok and mother is earth. O God! Separate these disturbing animals and animals from us the way you have oriented them from us. (1)
I found at the end of the yagna the most holy sixty thousand cows served by the sage Of Kanvaputra and the Sage Of Medhatithi, who holds the haavya, and by his stoetas, worthy of service and by the sages named The Glorious Priyamedha. 
O night! Just as the king listens carefully to the praise made by the psalms, so you listen carefully to our praises. By the grace of the night, destroying darkness and coming after the dawn, we become brave sons, grandsons and servants and be endowed with all kinds of wealth. (6)
Just as the tvastha makes a place for the charioteer to sit, so I evoke praise in the mind of the stotha. I've been to sompan several times. 
Just as water goes into the ocean and small rivers attain lakes, so Someras goes towards Indra Dev. Stota increases the glory of Indra Dev with his praises, just as the clouds increase the food while giving water. (7)
To give up prescribed duties because they are troublesome or cause bodily discomfort is renunciation in the mode of passion. Such renunciation is never beneficial or elevating.
O famous Adityas! You come for our yajna and sit in the yajna, restrained for our welfare. We beg for welfare from Jupiter, Pusha, Ashwinikumaras, Bhaga and the ignited agni. 
Oh, God! Save us from demons, protect us and speak well to us. Don't corrupt us by the far-right path of our father Manu. 
O agni! You are Aditi's son. Yajnakund is the navel of the earth (mother). In that we have established Havi. Please protect that Havi. You have been established for the welfare of human beings. Let us experience the ultimate power explained in us. Let the wicked be destroyed. We can roam in space and earth without any hindrance. (11)
Savita Dev is the hero of the world. We want to get their friendship and all the glory of the world. We want confirmation. We want heaven. Swaha for Savita Dev. (21)
I build a stable school in this state due to pillars etc. That school remained stable efficiently, giving me the desired results. O school! I should live in you as a family without many sons and grandsons, children with beautiful qualities and diseases etc. (1)
O great Indra! The vast earth and the sky accepted your strength. You struck the vritra with your own force and liberated the rivers affected by it. 
While accepting the bamboo pole from the hand of the Brahmin, I will be filled with the sharpness of the ears and the force received from it. Oh my god! You stay in this pyre. Let us live happily on this earth and suppress our enemies and their troubles. (59)
 O Indra! You make us heroic and refine us. You give us prosperity. You give us knowledge and nutrition. Please come close to us. 
The hantas of the demons and the audience of all sit on the yajna vedi, hurt by the Som Swarna and situated in Dronkalash. 
The Father was praised with thirty-nine limbs. Grow vegetation from those organs. Som became the master of that. The Father was praised with thirty-one limbs. Save the people from those organs. Men and women were made masters of them. The creatures were happy with him. Prajapati is the supreme. He is the master of all and the worlds. Everyone praises Indra Dev. (31)
O night! I know your names. You are named Deeptimati. You know this night. May that night stay awake to protect our wealth. (6)
O Som who was squeezed by us and made Indra drunk! You leave the Dashapavitra and go to Dronakalash, giving us renewable money. 
 May we hosts get the glory of heaven and earthland. May we also get the fame of Indra and Jupiter. I got the glory of the sun. This fame should never turn away from us. I got success in this meeting. In this, I can get a good ability to express thoughts 
Oh, Yum! Let this ghost go to those fathers who did good deeds and became virtuous, who extended the yajna and who did penance. 
O gods of good knowledge and those who drive away enemies! You are the master of the best wealth. Hey Aditya! Let us not come to us the money that has been earned by sin. 
O agni! You are the ones who hear our praises and give us the best wealth, house and food. 
 O Indra! In times of war and crisis, people who fight call you for help in war 
Who can praise Indra, who can please him and who can sacrifice him? Indra knows himself always fierce. Indra places the stota like the legs lying behind the path, sometimes in front of him and sometimes behind him by his intellect. 
This stotao! You sing songs like a sage in praise of the great and thousands of praises of The Great and Thousands of Praises, while filtering from dasapapvittra. 
O beautiful ashchinikumaro! The stone that is somatic with your desire makes the word high, at that time the brilliant Ritwizu attracts you with the havyas. 
High, short, powerful animals are related to Indra Dev and Vishnu, advanced, white arms and white-backed animals are related to Indra Dev and Jupiter Dev and Shuka-like animals are related to Vaji Dev. Chitakbare animals are related to agni and desert. The black colored pusha belongs to Dev. (7)
The force of the famous and defeating Maruts, which has a sharp time, is the enemy of the armies. I praise the same Maruts and call them for happiness. May they save me from sin. (7)
Along with the gods, Goddess Aditi should also protect us and everyone's protector Savita should be aware and follow us. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash follow our prayers. 
O cow! You walk in the land of the best grass and drink clean water and become the best child. The thief can't steal you. Do not do violence to evil animals like tigers etc. Rudra's armament should not touch you. (7)
O apsaras called Ugrafpala and Rashtrabhitiya! the sins we have committed such as the senses going into forbidden subjects; Eliminate the sin that is in the form of debt on us, be favorable to us. Due to our indebtedness to this, Yamraj could not come to catch us by taking a loop in this world. (2)
O agni that knows about all! You know the demons who live in the cavity. O agni finding growth through mantras! Stop hundreds of types of violence by these demons and destroy them with children. (4)
Oh woman! Just as the wind confuses the straw lying on the earth, I will make your mind fickle in the same way. With this, you will become a lover of me and you will not be able to go anywhere else near me. (1)
O Agni! The welfare that you do to the host who gives the havee in the yajna is really a means of your own happiness. 
 O Mon! You are illuminating yourself. You are the protector of yajna and the motivator of water. You are elixir and divine. 
Oh, Usha! Give the hymns a decadeless and inhabited glory. Give us money with cows. Remove usha enemies who inspires the host and loves the truth. 
In our Som-related yajna, three adorned goddesses namely Bharati, Saraswati and Mahati Ida should come. 
The moving Suryakirane approached Indra. The sages who loved the yajna went to Indra, pleading for wisdom. O Indra! Destroy the darkness. Fill our eyes with light and deliver us bound by sin. 
We call rudra, who is as strong as Varah, prakashsheel, jatadhari, bright and proformed. They may give us happiness, armor and home, wearing the selective herbs in their hands. 
O scholar, monk and sakha agni! You burn with the help of scholars, sadhus and sakha agnis. 
O Indra! You are going to grow through praises and hymns and do the welfare of the psalms. 
O swami of violent rats and moths etc. You are sharp-toothed. You listen to this word of mine. Whether you live in a forest or a village dweller, we destroy you through this ritual. (3)
O Indra! You grow up with power by drinking the somras filled in the pot and shiver your jaws. 
Just as Dau and the earth are neither afraid nor apprehensive of anyone, nor perish, O my soul! Similarly, do not be afraid of enemies, planets, diseases etc. (1)
Just as the marriageable rich youth makes his body beautiful by bathing in gold ornaments and water, the best and powerful deserts gather on chariots and adorn their bodies greatly. 
O immortal ashwani kumaro! You bring us food from afar, while destroying the cities of the enemies. 
Just as the king reveres a man without a little wealth, so the host and human beings in the forest soon grace the host. Like a protector, the workers are as well-being as the worker, the one who invokes the devas in the yagna and the one who makes a gesture is Agni Shobhankarma. 
The person who pierces kusha in a man of divine quality, the friend God gives him the welfare food. 
Those who carry the contents of the Agne Shradh to the fathers, those who increase the yajna and perform the yajna of the deities, I take the contents of the home to them. 
Like a flag, the invigilators of the yajna and the ancient agni know everything by their wisdom. The brightness of agni destroys the darkness. 
The one who eats before the guests destroys the milk and juice of his houses. (2)
May the same Aditiputra Varun, who has a good intellect, make us always walk on the best path and increase our lifespan. 
O Indra! Your friend mountain sages cast down from heaven the one who performs yajna for someone other than you, who is different from human beings, without a yagna and who does not believe in gods, and drives the bandit to death. 
O God! You are the one who purifies you and nurtures you. The way you look. Let us also emulate you in looking at (people) with the same vision. (32)
In ancient times, the veteran stoetas who rose to fame with many of the earliest made for the vayu dev, sanguine with the sun to give a tribute to the air in order to protect the human beings in distress. 
May the well-known and serviceable friend Indra be brought here by the praises of the happy and soothing horse hymns. 
Hey Aditya! Please us with the good wealth and house you have for the host tired of the work of squeezing somers and do good things to us. 
In the kingdom of King Parikshit, the wife asks her husband how much curd should I bring for you served on the plate. (9)
 Indra is great and enlightening. They get increased by the praises of their beloved devotees. They are like rain clouds. The worshipper is like the son of them. 
O medicine! In ancient times, Indra etc. gods defeated demons through you. That is why you received the name Apamarg. (4)
 O Mon! You are extremely sweet. You give the host the fruits of deeds. You are bright and satisfying. You get ready by filtering in the vessel for Indra. 
Salutations to the upward direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (30)
Some exploited Som with this vasha cow. Some worshiped this ghee, that is, attained ghrit. Those who donate vasa gau to those who know in this way go to the heaven of the gods. (32)
O Indra! Accept this awe of ours and protect us well. You also increase our intelligence. 
O Indra! Just as you heard the praises of Atri, listen to the praises of my sage Sheyavasva, who squeezes and performs yajna karma. O Indra! You alone protected the member of the war by raising praises. 
O Indra! You are one of immense opulence. May our words as sacred as agni increase you. O stotao! You chant praise mantras for Indra. (1)
Humans encroach on different directions of the earth like crossing the river by boat. Just as people go through all adversities through well-being, the sage Brihaduktha with his power established his son in nearby and distant substances. 
O burn! You are part of Yama. You bear the semen of the waters and the divine glory in us. You establish the glory of Prajapati in us for public welfare. (12)
O Indra! The reason for the joy that you rejoice in the Trit and Apya Yajna is the water-full Somaras. (1)
 O agni! You are multicolored, dynamic and 
 O Indra! You are the only God of wealth. If we also become like you, our worshippers will praise us along with cows. 
 Indra, while speaking the name of Soma, indicates to plough his horses in his chariot. 
O Mon, being purified! Bring our desired things closer to us, frighten our enemies and get their wealth. 
The batloi that cooked this odan has been caught by atharvaveda and samaveda has surrounded it with coals from all sides. (15)
O agni! Please increase the amount to the person at whose house we perform yajna karma. All gods accept his supremacy. May all become masters of Brahmgyan. (52)
O Indra! Which part of the food in the form of Soma is the best among the desires that produce happiness, by which you, while being pleased, scatter the wealth among your devotees. (2)
May the god of the universe free us from the sins that we have committed in the waking state or while sleeping, like a wooden step bond in the past and the future. (2)
O sons of Maharishi Kali! Your squeezed somers be the only one for Indra. Don't be afraid. These monsters etc. are going away from you. They're running away on their own. 
I call the trees that the pig knows and the herbs that the mongoose is familiar with and the snakes and Gandharvas know, to protect this patient man. (23)
Varun Dev has said about fen. Agni has also said the same about lead zinc. Indra, the supreme opulence, has given me lead. Indra has said, "O dear! This lead is going to kill demons. (2)
The sanctifying and the thousands of streams cross the dasapavittra made of Aries' hair and goes to the vessel for air and indra's drinking. 
O sun! Give us the power to see our eyes. For all things we can see, give us eyes. Let's look at all things collectively. 
O Fire and Mon! May the host who gives you the offering and the gift of ajaya, may he have a full life of power with sons and grandsons, etc. 
Let us protect the Aschinikumaras and achieve the shobhan arrival. Oh, without death! You give us all property, children and all kinds of good fortune. 
O Vajrabahu and Narpalak Indra! We have longed for huge wealth, you know it. You protect us, the faithful and the eulogists. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! Let us be sinless in your eyes. 
The first chapter of this world is the full moon. (1)
Vasishtha's sons praised them like their fathers. They praised the gods for getting the same welfare as their fathers. Just as the happy brothers give money, in the same way that the bums come before us and bring our desired wealth to us. 
When these agnis soak the world with the juice of udak and suggest a simple way of using water in the form of bathing, paan, etc., at that time Aryama, Mitra, Varuna and the moving deserts all around destroy the cover of the water-borne place of the cloud. 
Knowledge and science are its protectors and the mind is its war chariot. (26)
O agni that gives the abode! The hymn you want to make your leader of all to give money to, and the hymn that you wish for you, he himself receives a son of a speaker of the uquth mantras, the nurturer of thousands, and the heroic son. 
O son of strength, agni! The same host is called by all the people as Shobhan Havisampanna, the one with beautiful gods and the best yajnayukta. 
Urvashi said, "O puruva! You were born as a son to protect the earth. That's why you put your bright embodiment in my abdomen. At that time I told you that I would not be with you under any circumstances. You didn't listen to me at the time. Why are you doing useless things at this time?" 
Fire messengers and vehicles are carriers. We establish them in front of us. We request them to come here and sit and take Havi to the gods. (17)
Eight metals like skin, blood etc. form the body. They are represented here as the wheels of the chariot – this body is an eight-wheeled chariot. Prana is the only axis of this. In the folk, the wheels of the chariot surround the axis. The prana-like axis comes out of one wheel and enters the other. That soul enters all beings from one part of itself and arises as a soul. The second part of it becomes the flag of unlimited Brahman i.e. the universe. (22)
The superior and the great Indra is of glory. Their might be as great as the sky. (1)
O agni! Sit down by the havan-holding host and accept the yajnasadhan food made by the havan and accept the innocent hymns of the bharadwajavanshis and do so that they can get various food. 
O Vishwamana Rishi! Praise Indra, who is non-violent, powerful and controlled by hymns by the same enemies, like a sage. Swami Indra gives a house of worship to the havandata host. 
These powerful Varunas, friends and Aryama Devas who attain the yajna hold our yajnakarma. Aditi Devi, who can't stop by anyone, listen to our call. May these gods destroy our sins without hindering us. 
O O O O Son! You are going to wear. Therefore, be distinguished in the location of the land. You are unseen, god, do not forgive you. May the husband and wife with living sons strengthen you with paddy. (35)
The sage Stota praises Indra in the wilderness. Indra finds adornment in his devotees by manifesting his bravery. Indra Havyadata, who makes the desired rainfall, protects the host. When the host praises Indra with the desire of yajna, only then do they prepare him in the yajna. 
Two stars named Vichrit located in the sky destroy regional diseases like decay, leprosy, epilepsy etc. (4)
In the midst of the world, there is the great Yaksha, that is, God. That God, who gives anger, that is, heat, is present over water. It is heard that all the gods are pervading it in such a way that the branches of the tree pervad it. (38)
Whatever is in this root conscious world is by the grace of God. Enjoy the one forsaken by that God. Don't covet too much. Whose wealth all this belongs to? (i.e. of none other than God). (1)
 Up to thirty clocks of the day, the sun is illuminated by its rays. For these suns, every mouth speaks 
Fire gives the form of a flow to the water body moving in the sky and soaks the earth with the same group of pure rays of water. They hold entire grains in the stomach, so they live within the new crops produced after the rains. 
We remove the incompetent signal of the forehead from our body like an enemy. May our children get the good fortune that are indicative chillas. We have removed bad chills from our bodies, let them be received by our enemies. (1)
O Indrani! I don't go to anyone other than my friend Vrushakapi. Their havi is cremated with water. They are dearer to me than all gods. These Indras are excellent among all the gods. (12)
O ghost! May the father in one place enter you from one body to another all your part that was separated from your body, which was separated from your body, which was separated from your body, to not return to life. (26)
Indra, who fulfills the wishes, reaches all his worshipers together and hears everyone's praises at the same time. The host in whose three dreams this type of Indra is distinguished defeats the enemies who want to fight with the influence of the highly intoxicating Somas. (6)
The first born animals are for agni like the commander. For the best ascetic deserts, there are moving animals like air. Households are eternal animals for deserts. Sportsmen are good quality animals for deserts. There are animals living together for self-motivated deserts. (16)
Twelve are and three names are related to one wheel. Twelve months, twelve are and winter, summer, rain, three seasons are three names. They are located in the wheel of time. Who knows this, that is, no one knows. Three hundred and sixty pegs and as many nails have been installed in that wheel which are stable. The day and night of the year are pegs and nails. (4)
Hosts permeate the enemy-destroyer, water-inducing, green-coloured and spinach of Dulok. In wars, the chief som among the Shurs and Devas asks for the path of the place of cows stolen by the pangs. Only with the help of Indra Som follow the world. 
But those who find faults with my teachings, being bereft of knowledge and devoid of discrimination, they disregard these principles and bring about their own ruin.
O warrior Maruto! Who drives you by staying within you like a tongue that runs your jaws? i.e. none. Just as the cloud that rains water moves in the day, so the host drives you to get food. 
O teacher! Give somras to shobhan jaws and veer indra and call them to drink somras. 
There are six types of an in this yajna. There are a hundred letters in this yajna. There are eighty types of homes. There are three types of samidhas. In each season, seven yagyas are performed. (58)
O Indra! After doing sompan, we know you by being among the people with strong intellect who are very close to you. Don't let you even see others except us. You come close to us. 
Hey Mon! Be pure, defeating the war-ridden enemies, driving away the inaccessible demons, and grieving the enemies by streaming the aura. 
O Indra called by many! Give your strength to your fellow stos. You have shattered the fortified enemy cities. You reveal to us the hidden wealth by the light of wisdom. 
O ponyle! By forcing the sins called Kanva, which destroys life and causes diseases like leprosy, to go backwards. I also send diseases like leprosy to the place where darkness goes after sunrise. (5)
The gods performed yajna with yajna. In that, religion got the first seat. Those who live life by yagya etc. methods, such life seekers are glorious. Such people attain heaven. (16)
 O hosts! You refine Som for the sake of friend and Varun. Refine someras to gain strength and skill and to offer it to the gods. 
O adhwaryujano! Bring someras for indra, the enemy who killed and threw down a hundred thousand asuras in the lap of the earth and those who destroyed the opponents of kuts, age and atithigava. 
O Indra! You wear good food in the sky and drink someras on the occasion of yajna etc. You protect this yajna while wishing for Someras. (2)
In this way, all the people who get from the yagyas can be found through the odan cooked with great effect. (19)
Those who act under the impulse of desire, discarding the injunctions of the scriptures, attain neither perfection, nor happiness, nor the supreme goal in life.
O Indra! We know your best intellect. Do not condemn us by others and come to our sacrifice. (3)
 O hosts! Praise you for your Indra. Indra is the destroyer of Vritrasura. They should destroy the demons 
O Shur Indra! The praiseworthy praises of a hymn named Bharadwaj, who aspires for more yajnakarma, call upon you to be called. O you sitting in the chariot, the uninitiated and very new Indra! You get the best personalities as a hobby. 
We pray for that famous and enjoyable wealth of Savita Dev. May we get wealth superior to the God called Bhaga, who holds everyone and destroys enemies. 
Just as Idra defeated his enemy with the superior weapon of praise words, so I despise these enemies. (8)
Philosophical scholars call that divine dynamic Indra, Mitra, Varuna and Agni. This divine dynamic is one, but scholars call it in many ways. They call it Agni, Vayu and Yama. (28)
In a nation where there is violence of a Brahmin, the sin of brahman-like of that nation drowns it with a boat with holes. It is the calamity cast on the Brahmin that sinks that nation. (8)
O agni! You, along with other agnis, make our mantra-like praise and the yajna achieved by praises successful. O God of Agni! Inspire our host to give us money. (5)
When the worthy of the ritvazhavi and the recipient of the gods rotate the horse around the fire three times from time to time, the first goat, part of the pusha, propagates the divine from its 'in, in'. 
O agni! We should follow the path which is auspicious and easy, by going on the path, the hatreds are completely destroyed and we get money. (29)
O night of unspeakable influence, praised by all, blessed and well-generated! You have arrived. When you come, I will be beautiful-minded. Obey Me and protect the goods produced, the things that are beneficial to human beings and the beneficial things that strengthen the cow, etc. (3)
The sweet juice dripping mons by the ritwijs are always dropped on the dashapavitra to go to the tronkalash. Our fingers want to massage Mon over and over again. 
May this girl of ours get her husband, so that Som Raja makes her lucky. After marriage, she should prove to be the best wife giving birth to sons. In this way, she is fortunate and beautified to have a husband. (3)
O Indra and Pushadeva! Protect us. Devmata Aditi protect us. Let the forty-nine marudas protect us. May the agni god and the seven oceans, who make water fuel, protect us. May Vishnu and sky protect us. May the happy rays of the callous agni and agni and the protectors protect us from the suffering given by the demons. (1)
O Pawman Mon! People had raised you for your growth through yajnas. You give it to us. 
The devotion of gods in us increased day by day. That is why we go to the shelter of Arati. Hello to Arati. (3)
Your name is Shiva (welfare). Sharp weapons are your father. Our salutations to you. You never trouble us. We request you for age, food, reproduction, wealth and nutrition. We treat you for good children and good semen. (63)
O Lord Indra! O God! You protect Som. Just as you were pleased to drink somras in the yagna of sharyati, so you should come to this yajna and drink somras. You are brave, pleasant, have the best sacrifice and are good kabirs. You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev. You have been accepted in the upayam for Marudgan Dev. The book is your native place. Please be stable here with the desert. (35)
May god leaves i.e. ladies wish me. Those goddesses are Indra's wife, agni wives and leaves of Ashchinikumaras. Rudra's wife Rudrani and Varun's wife Varunani should come in front of me and listen to my praise. At that time, dev wives should accept our desire. (2)
 Somers is powerful. He shines heaven and destroys the wicked. He is divine and continues to flow. 
This soma should increase the strength of Indra and shower it on Indra's beloved Som. 
Somdev sat in our yajna, extending our lifespan and defeating the enemies who disrupted the yagna. 
O Indra! He who praises you receives a thousand heroes who look vikram like a thunderbolt in battle. The one who greets you with the word 'greeting salutation' receives a son with a warm semen. 
Sanjay said: Having thus spoken, Gudakesh, that chastiser of enemies, addressed Hrishikesh: “Govind, I shall not fight,” and became silent.
O the leaves on the upward side, the cause of good fortune, the medicine inspired by the gods and subdued the husband! You remove my soul and make my husband mine only mine. 
O Indra! You are achievable. May you adorn us in all the sacrifices. Indra, who kills the vritra demon, reveals his form according to the richas. May that Indra adorn our suktas, havis and mantras. (3)
O Indra, the lord of wealth and revered by the praises! Drink quickly to the mon squeezed by the power from your purpose. 
O Savita Dev! While going to work, call me from behind by taking the name of experience in all the constellations, calling me from both sides by taking the name Parihav. Avoid arguments, speech, observation, entry into a prohibited place and seeing empty pitchers, etc. (4)
Devgan, provide accessible pleasures to our horses, Aries, sheep, men, women and cows. 
May the golden krishna that Pragyavan Manu attained from the sun, worn by human beings, unite you with the glory that brings happiness. The man who wears this golden is eternal. (2)
Destructive fires destroy a variety of trees with their crestial teeth and are illuminated with various lights. Just as the arrow goes quickly from the thrower, so the air moves as a friend of fire. 
O ghost! Let the deserts wear you in Vyom. May the wind bring you to the upper world. The clouds that hold water and rain should also water you with rain water with aj i.e. unborn souls nearby. (22)
O Aghnya! Loosen the ingredients and joints of this kidnapper. (10)
O you, o you! You sing praises by the grace of the gods to Indra, the fierce, the enemy-destroyer, the slanderer, and the forceful take away the wealth of enemies. 
Let them sing to us vrithrashakta and goswami indra and end the sacrificial black people with their bright fast. Indra had closed all the gates of the cows' exit by giving sweet songs to the Angiras from the truth. 
Hey Mon! You make an old friendship with us. You kill the demon of over-eating, uneekly, and external-inner maya, and fight our sins. 
O agni! Always give me the worshiper of the yajna as a means of many deeds. O agni! May we have sons and grandsons, and may your fruitful wisdom be compatible with us. 
 O Indra! You are a mountain dweller. Give us somers. He is available everywhere. Please take away the most slanderous things from us. O Indra! You are going to defeat enemies. 
The smoke-filled flames that spread well all over, those agnis living in three places automatically increase their flames in the sky in such a way that the blacksmith ignites the agni through the blower. Fire blowers accelerate themselves like blacksmiths. 
"The Kumar who slept in the mother's womb for ten months should come out of the womb of the living mother as a complete living creature." 
O agni! You have been created to throw at the unpleasant men of all gods and to throw them as arrows at the enemies. You are also praised in the yajna. You protect us. O agni shining in the sky! Hello to you. (4)
The nishchatary som repeatedly utters words on the path of yajna. O place of nectar and Shuklavarna Som! You're especially shining. He is the messenger and the messenger of words with the wisdom of the psalms! You filter for Indra. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You are going to fulfill various desires. The ritwijas who have become your friends have worn the somras that fulfill the desire and inspire them to act. So you both go to your servant's house and listen to his call. 
Those who are the ones who cut down trees useful for the yupe, who carry the cut tree for the sake of the yupe, who make the chashle in the horse-tying yup, or who prepare wooden utensils to cook horse meat, let my resolve be included in them all. 
 O Indra! Just as the son wants money from the father, so we want money from you as a father. You are rich, knowledgeable and a giver. Please give us the best happiness. 
 O hosts! You worship in front of Indra's chariot. You worship Shakti. Indra is the guardian, greater and motivator of the world. It is our heartfelt wish that the bow of our enemies should be broken. 
 O Saraswati! You are dear to us. You have seven sisters. You connect us with them. We praise you. 
When the predecessor Usha ends, the great light named Indestructible Sun originates from the sky or the ocean. After this, the deva-related deeds begin and the hosts are present near the devas. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
 O Indra! You wear a golden thunderbolt in your hand. Your glory is infinite. 
 O Mon! Hundreds of people praise you. You are the sustainer of thousands of creatures and have a lot of food, wealth and light. Give us wise and strong sons. 
O school! He who receives you and who has measured and created you. O wife of Mann! Both of these bodies live until they relax. (9)
O agni! My father Vadhyascha served you in this way, just as the father sits on his lap and obeys the son. O very young agni! You also killed special enemies by getting my father's samidhas. 
May the yajna 
O Indra! Drink the somers of the maruts you are happy to have help. Drink this satiating mon while you firm yourself. O Shunrushant Indra! Come with the strong and revered maruts and increase the earth and the heavens by following us by the beast, the son. 
I call the Sun in the form of Indra, who is the one who suppresses others, who conquers that glory of enemies, conquers heaven, conquers enemies' cows, etc. and conquers water. By the grace of those Indra-formed suns, I should become the beloved of the people. (3)
O hosts! Offer Soma, Ghrit etc. for Yama. Salutations to former men and mantra seers Angira etc. (2)
O Indra! Increase us by protecting us with your defense means in our transiting land. (21)
I have woken up with the divine hymns of the Ashwinikumaras. O Ushadevi! By listening to My praise, remove the darkness and give wealth to mankind. 
The lord and powerful Varuna of all wealth held the dolok, measured the magnitude of the earth and sat as emperor of all the bhuvanas. All of Varun's works are of the same kind. 
Deserts do not go to their praiseors by ride, but in the hearts of all, they do not commit sins. When the bright deserts milk the water according to the wishes of the stoetas, they are adorned with splendour, they reveal their bodies and irrigate the earth. 
May the sages who compose the twelve verses get this sacrifice well. (9)
The lord of your people, Prajapati, wish to give fruit by being a danotsuk. The yajnakar has been given fruit by Savita Dev. May Indra and Aryama, pleased with praise, give me fruit. All the gods with beautiful appearance give me fruit. 
O ashchinikumaro with a behoes and a lit path! I call the chariot on which you sat to elect Surya as a wife, for the sake of protecting you. 
Let the invading enemy destroy him. O radiant Mon! Come before us and kill the enemy who is offending all. 
 O hosts! Indra shows bravery in war. They are going to defeat the army of enemies. With their grace 
O the deserters! Let your armed enemies be firm to destruction and to stop the enemies. May your power be praiseworthy, let the power of enemies who betray us not be praiseworthy. 
The chariot of agni is black in colour, white-coloured, bright, great, straight-moving, red and successful. Vidhata has made it golden in colour. 
We are under the ultimate famous defense of host friend. Oh my friend! Sinless we will be protected by you and soon become as dear to Varuna as a son. 
Hey Yup! Be high to give us vast wealth, giving us uncharted, rich and dry offspring,giving us food and driving away our hostile sin, while you are in the east direction of the agni called The Ignited Aawaniy. 
Indra accepts the sources of the man who prepares Someras, who wishes for the gods, and satisfies him with sweet words. (3)
O Indra! In the yajnapatra dedicated to you, you have mixed the mantra-like words. The host with such a sacrificial pot is strengthened by not going to the battlefield but being immersed in your worship, because the one who gives you the uninvited soma must get the power. 
Hey Mon! Protect the host in whose hymns and mantras of Havan you are always in. Hey Mon! Protect Indra, the lord of food, in wars for wealth. 
O disease-free man! Just as a bull capable of conception is tied with a rope, so I bind you to old age. That is, I make you live till old age. As soon as you are born, death has tightened its trap in famine. Cut that trap with the hands of Jupiter Brahma. (8)
O shanruo! You are coming in front of us, putting a string on the bow, pulling the bow and throwing arrows. You all become weak-handed. May Indra hurt you today (2)
O trishandhi! You surround our enemies with darkness. In our yajna work, you have been called to eat the rice received from curd. Don't leave even one of our enemies alive. (19)
Elephant keeper for heavy vehicle, horse keeper for speed, cowherd for confirmation, sheep keeper for semen, goat keeper for fast, farmer for food grain, amrit specialist for drink like nectar, housewife for happiness welfare, rich for credit, inspector should be appointed for presiding. (11)
They make brahmins their mouths and ask for god Vasha. A person who does not give it becomes the target of their anger. (20)
O Indra! Even if the earth were ten times as large as its present size, and the people living on it had lived forever, your revolutionary power would still be famous everywhere. The slaughter of your dwara vritra is as vast an act as the sky. 
The ancient Angira sages praise the gods in this yagna. They lift up the stone and look at The Yajnasadhan Som. Indra with special eyesight has been great by the word of stones. Indra's thunderbolt rained water in this route. 
When he walked towards the subjects, he made Pran an annanad and went as Prajapati. (21)
 O Mon! To get a lot of money, we filter you in matkas. Ayasya Rishi sings while wearing your waves for Dev Pujan. 
When the Ritvijas milk Soma in the Indrajathar in the form of Dronakalash and the leader of the yajna karma with shobhan bahu massaging the identifiable and intoxicating Soma with his ten fingers, many intelligent stomata speak praises together. 
I observe a fast with a thousand eyes and invoke the present bhav and sharva in a distant land. I admire the same shaktishalas who are masters of two-legged humans and four-legged animals in this world, they save us from sin. (3)
O Indra! You approve to give a group of several thousand and a hundred cows. We will take indra towards us for our protection, speaking various good words and praising him who penetrates the cities. 
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan from our place of residence to the direction of space, they do our violence from the direction of space, those enemies should turn away from our side and burn. We kill those magicians by returning their witchcraft to them. (6)
There are two divines of Virat Yajna. They are the best speech speakers. They perform yajna with the rays of the sun emanating from the east direction. He inspires human beings to perform noble deeds like yajna etc. (32)
O paddy! Animals are of different forms, but you are of the same form. Give up your husk through stone. (21)
O son of strength, agni! Protect the houses from the detestables and blasphemers in which Goddess Annarupini sits fully with ghee in her hands. Give us a lot of hearingable pleasures for a long time. 
Jupiter has conquered huge cowsheds and wealth full of cows. They ascend to heaven to give water and destroy enemies through mantras. (3)
This type of cow snatched from a Brahmin binds a man who humiliates Brahmanism in the bondage of death. (4)
The Full Moon-endowed With the full moon, the Full Moon wins in the west direction and wins in the east direction. It also proves to be excellent in the middle of the sky. In this Paurnamasi, we should be happy with food in the upper part of heaven, living in importance with the gods who perform yajna. (1)
O Indra! Squeezed somras is better than unscreated somalta. O thoughtful Indra! Somras is going to please you. O enemy, Indra! You come to Som as the instrument of yajna and drink it and fulfill your powers. 
 O Indra! This whole world belongs to you. Arya serves you like a slave. You are the abbot of the saints. Rashmi and Pavi worship you even by being powerful. 
Let us get a well-being and a very peaceful home through innovative means of the Adityas. The hasty Aditya should listen to this praise of us and make the host a crime and povertyless. 
O vandhari and shur indra! You inspire the maruts famous for the destruction of enemies in battle at a time when you hear the hymns' hymns spoken to the stars of the stoetas towards the devas. 
Let the agni-carrying people be our guardians without a little bit and be comprehensive, bright and visible to us. O agni! You provide well to the grains containing shobhan garhapya and give us plenty of food. 
O Indra, who does many deeds, is ancient and who reveals his importance in the struggle! Whether a person is without intellect or wise, if he praises you, he attains bliss by your mercy. 
May the organs of my body be well-being in the form of peace of the head. May my feet, etc., bring happiness to the following organs. May both my hands and both my feet be happy. May the central part of my body get sickness. (4)
O Indra! When the Panis kidnapped the cows, the Angiragotri sages first edited the food for you. Indra removes the terrible fear we have from us. That Indra always illuminates the agni of the call with his best deeds. Indra, the leader of the devas, had received the money snatched from the panis from gi, horse, sheep, goat etc. (4)
Due to the time that kills animals, the trembling earth became the remover of our vibrational defects. May the location of meteors falling as flames give us peace. In place of milk, let the cows giving blood and the exploding earth give us peace. (8)
The corrupt and praiseworthy mons in the human beings bathe in the great waters. The best streams of Mon fall. 
Salutations to such deserted houses, whose doors and window-like eyes are open. Salutations to such donkeys, whose soil has been removed. Salutations to the husband of the deserted house etc. area. The medicine that destroys regional diseases i.e. diarrhea, tuberculosis etc. should remove all diseases. (5)
O agni, the son of awakened and force by himself! Sit on the cushions I have laid down, called by me. 
O Indra! It is only for your drinking that we make this mon and inspire your stomach. May this mon delight in your heart. 
O Indra! It is designed with the help of somras stone and is kept in the characters. It's worth your drinking. Drink it and fulfill your desire and then put your mind into the work of giving us money. 
In the midst of the arani, the present to whom the enemies cannot give sorrow, the blind person cannot destroy the importance of that fire. Hosts with unconvincing devotions kill and protect the same fire through yajnaadi. 
May Vishwe Dev and Indra etc. give us peace. May Saraswati give us happiness with our praises. May the gods coming from all sides in the yajna and gathering for charity give us peace. God, humans born on earth, animals etc. and birds flying in the sky give us happiness. (2)
The furious and thousand-eyed Varuna see the waters of these rivers. 
The kratandarsophys describe the same bird as divine with a variety of words. They compose a variety of verses in the yagnas and establish the twelve characters of the Somras. 
Varuna knows the path of the air that is rich in detail, scenic and of greater quality. They are also familiar with the gods who dwell in the sky. 
Hey Ritvijo! The givers of the house, the protectors of the gods, the drunkards and the most powerful som, mix the som with matarup water as if they take the calf to the cow. 
 O hosts! Undoubtedly, this Somers is going to win. Assume this you totally. It is pleasing. You drive the long-tongued dogs 
O ladies! You live on the peepal tree and on the Palash tree is your abode. When you have mercy on a sick man, you become the right to get a cow. 
Hey Mon! You make up your mind to suit us and give us all kinds of money. You give juice by listening to praises. You give us food. 
O you are pure, Mon! The bright hymns with shobhan karma praise you with the desire to protect you. O Mon embellished with various praises! The winged hawk brought you from paradise. 
Indra and Fire! Come to our celebration squeezing this somerus to get friendly. Don't you know anyone other than us. They only know us, so they call us by more food. 
O God of water! Don't you corrupt my intellect. Brahma, don't corrupt the Vedas I have studied. By targeting my karma which is drying up, that is, being destroyed, make it wet from all sides, that is, protect it. With the permission of all of you, I should become with good intelligence and become full of the glory of Brahman. (2)
Oh my friend and Varun! Stay in your places as you shine with your deeds. Your chariot that roams in the forest is located in the path of the horses. You both sit in the chariot to defeat the enemies shouting loudly. The wise sage has been exempted from the ethrimedha. 
Hey Mon! You are cleansing and give us the power of adornment, two curses of earth and a huge house. Don't make those who hate our yajnakarma our masters. Let us win a lot of money by your grace. 
Deeptishalini, invoked by many and admired by all, makes the eternal wealth permanent by adding red bulls to the chariot. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Who other than Me can the host wish to perform your yajna? You protect us by living in heaven, in the vast earth and in the sky. Give me the host of the yajna, you animals and food, and protect them. 
O Ashwinikumaro who lives with the sun! Your chariot, which runs as fast as your mind and has hundreds of protective means, comes into our yagna by despising the people at our prayers. 
Savita Dev rides on a golden chariot and travels while watching the people. They rid the earth of darkness. He inspires all human beings and gods etc. in karma and humans etc. (31)
 I 
O Medha Devi worshipped by God and man etc. You come with cows and horses to give us. Come near to us with the power of your scope like the rays of the sun. You are worthy of yajna for us. (1)
O Vrithrahanta Indra! He who squeezes the deep mon for you and follows you is brave. He is free of opposition and served by servants. 
O enemy-destroying Mon! We are yours. O Mon who gives the abode! May we be very close to the money you have given and desired by many. O unchallenged Mon! Let's be very close to happiness. 
O Indra! You are as dynamic, virtuous and as rich as a river. May you give us happiness because of this yajna. Do not destroy our children and do not abandon us. (8)
You are in the bondage of King Varuna. They tie the son of this gotra and such a mother in the bondage of food and life. (44)
Medicines say in the same way as their master, Som Raja, "Rajan! The one we make a Brahmin crosses over. (96)
Just as a gambler holds the dice, our praises receive Indra. Indra, the swami of wealth, has installed the Sun God, who destroys darkness, in the sky. O Indra! No one else, ancient or modern, can imitate this work of yours. (5)
Hey, Lord! The person whom you and Indra protect, the one who possesses the best of intellects and becomes the one who is in the yagna. 
O Indra! May the hymns of sage Gouriviti raise you up. You had subdued the asura named Pipru for the welfare of Rijishwa, the son of Viddhin. Rizisha had cooked the purodash and placed it in front of you to get your friendship and you drank its somras. 
O agni! Accept our committee today. Touch the sky high with the waters and your warm flames, lifting the worthy and admirable smoke of the yajna. You meet the sun. 
O arrow! Increase us by all means. Our body is like a stone. Som spoke while biasing us. Aditi give us happiness. 
O very young man, the angel and the most worthy agni of yajna! Hear my praises, and let your worshiper give me your shelter. 
O Indra! May the praises of Stom, Ukth and our speech increase you. (6)
Devapi, the son of The Rishis, sat down to perform the yajna by praising the gods with a bounty. At that time they brought water from the upper sea, that is, from space to the sea below, and divine water rained all around. 
O God of dreams! Keep these people sleeping on bed etc. and other people sleeping till sunrise. When everyone falls asleep, without violence and decay, I should engage in enjoyment and awaken like Indra. (7)
O Shur Indra! You killed with your wharf, sleeping in the cavity, hidden in the darkness, soaked in the deep invisible waters, who subdued the earth and the sky through maya. 
We should be free from the evil consequences of the nightmares we see in the waking state and the nightmares we see while sleeping, and from the past resolutions of moneylessness, from the good things that are not obtained, and from the destructive loops that do not leave. (9)
Without eating water and being destroyed by water, they are not naked because of being surrounded by water even if they are not covered with clothes and like the offspring of space and clothes are not covered. The seven rivers of Sanatan, Nitya Tarun and one place, conceived of agni as a womb. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! I describe shobhan kirti that came about because of your importance.  When Dyava-Prithvi called you in fear, you protected the gods, destroyed the power of demons, and gave strength to the host. 
O agni! What people say about you in this world by praises and meaningless words without food and without food is in vain, without means of goodness, they suffer. 
Oh, my friends! You sing praises that please Indra, who is named Hari and who drinks somras. 
I have received the same gem that Jupiter had tied in the hands of the gods, which destroyed the effects, with radiance, light, sacrifice and fame. (27)
Indra is powerful, so he is never defeated when enemies are ready to fight. Just as the husband goes to his wife, so Indra goes near her when called by the stota. (13)
Just as som etc. deities are rich, let us also become blessed. Swaha for agni. Swaha for Som Dev. Swaha for Savita Dev. Swaha for Saraswati Devi. Swaha for Pusha Dev. Swaha for Jupiter Dev. Swaha for Indra Dev. Swaha for Ghosh. Swaha for shloka. Swaha for Ghosh. Swaha for the god of wealth. Swahasya Devi for Swaha. Swaha for Aryama Dev. Good luck to God. (5)
Mitra and Varun are the overswamis of Varsha. May they protect me in this Vedokta Paurohitya karma, in prestige, in resolve, in Devahuvana karma and in karma as a blessing. (5)
 O Mon! Your juice is extracted by crushing with stones. Your stream is full of happiness, sweet and loving the friendship of Indra. He is blissful, energizing and satisfying for the gods. 
 O Indra! That person lives under the divine protection of you. That person is protected from sin and enemies, the person who becomes your friend with the effective prayers of the host. 
O Indra! In the war that is going to get the best wealth, protect us with your additional defense tools. (10)
O Jupiter! The person who does not believe in the gods, who does violence against us with his heart and wants to kill us who destroy the asuras, his weapon cannot even touch us. Let us put an end to the wrath of that powerful and evil enemy. 
O agni! You are the master and sustainer of this earth, located in the supreme heaven. You put life-giving energy in the water and keep the living beings alive. (12)
O joyful agni! You wear two spoons filled with ghee in your mouth. O son of strength, agni! You make us successful in yajnas. O agni! You bring food for the praiseors. 
O sun! Get rid of this man's head disease. Free it from the cough disease that has entered its joint. Free this man from diseases caused by rain and water, which are caused by bile disorders. These diseases leave this man and go to the vegetation and mountains. (3)
May the water of mother form cleanse us, let the water flowing like a curse purify us and let the divine water shed all our sins. We come out of the water pure and holy. 
O Ashchinikumaro, cry! Your birth and your brothers are the same. Your defenses stay with us. 
The enemies who want to violence others, who come from the south direction and worship me at night, those enemies should be received by Som, who gets the support of Rudras for their destruction. (3)
Indra is the lord of the Somaras, the bearer of the thunderbolt, the powerful enemy slayer, the one who kills the king Vritra and is the drinker of the Somaras. He should come before us by adding the horses named Hari to his chariot and be happy after drinking somrus in the middle of the season. 
The yajna had enlarged Indra, because Indra went to the jhuloka and stabilized the earth by sleeping the cloud. 
O air! This tart and satisfying somras is ready. You come and drink the somras you have brought. 
O God! Make this brahmachari wear clothes. Nurture this celibate of ours with glory. Old age is going to kill it. Make it such a long life. Jupiter gave this cloth to King Soma to wear. (4)
O man! You have found a frenzy of the mind because of the sin committed about the gods. Knowing the resistance to the disease of this man who is frantic due to the demons i.e. Brahmarakshas etc. planets, I meditate on it. (3)
O agni worthy of worship and giving abode! Just as you redeemed a cow called Gauri with tied legs, so rescue us from sin. O agni! Increase our age by you and more. 
Season, truth, sun, moon and constellations followed him. (5)
 O Mon! You are wish-fulfilling, purifying and enlightening. You see everyone with one eye 
O Ashwinikumaro! The very grainy adornment serves you. The sun is burning in the yagnashala of humans. That sunshine fills the rivers and oceans by the rain to get you. Just as horses are added to the chariot, so you are put in the yagna. 
He walked towards the pole direction. (1)
O jewel! The herbs produced in the beginning of creation are not superior to you. Even new medicines are not superior to you. O jangid mani that obstructs the enemy army etc. You are fierce, protective and well-mannered. (7)
O milk! Roar like a lion. O bride with a long life like a tree! You look at the cow and say words like a bull that rams. Especially tied, you are going to rain semen, because of this your enemies become powerless. Your strength is like Indra, so only semen can bear it. (2)
I see a young cow being taken near the deceased. It is also covered with command, so I remove it from the body and bring it in front of me. (3)
This Usha is the daughter of heaven. Therefore, it is illuminated in front of everyone, wearing a light-like garment, moving well in the east direction. Usha, knowing the meaning of her beloved sun, walks forward on its path and never ends the east direction. 
He gets the action of digesting fame, fame, sky, water, Brahmavarchas i.e. Brahma tej food and food, which is the knower of these ekvrit i.e. Brahma. (1)
Destroy what we are looking for by means of slaughter i.e. weapons. We put it under the head of Parameshti i.e. Brahma with the force of mantra. (42)
From that horse-form sacrificial man, animal baddha mantras named Rik and mantras named Geet Roop Saam were born. Verses originated from the same sacrificial man. From that, mantras named Yajush with the combined text of prose patya appeared. (13)
This mystic stota is present here like the powerful Taurus i.e. bulls. They have sons, cows, etc. in their house. (5)
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages named the second conch. (9)
O human benefactor Indra! Climb the horses you protect, riding on the horses that are like the air like the fast-moving and adorning chariots. You have intensified the demonised vajra provided by the poet's son Ushana as a virulent and an enemy transgressor. 
These hymns and singing worthy speeches are being generated. The money-giving speech wins over the shanrus. It always protects the hymn that gives food. Just as the chariot moves to take its master to the destination, in the same way, these verses of ours should go to Indra to please him. (1)
O agni worthy of yajna! The glory that you have in the sky, the earth, the herbs, and the water, the brightness by which you have expanded the space, is as wide as the bright sky, the deepest sea, and is as visible to man. 
O Indra! Those who are ready to commit violence against us, those who are near or far away, do not come before us, you should deprive the forces of those enemies, destroy their power and turn them away from us.
This kind of special knowledgeable Vratya, in the house where the guest is a guest, give him a seat and say - O Vratya! Where do you live? It's water. Let the person of our house satisfy you. Whatever you love, as you control and as your work is, it should be the same. (2)
There are a hundred forces of speech. (4)
O agni! Get the host food with wealth and the scholars who praise you and give you the whole life. We, after taking possession of the enemy's food in the battle, give the gods a share of the havi for the sake of success. 
O rich Indra! At the present I am engaged in the praise of you in the yajnashala of the religion of King Som and Varuna and jupiter. O dhata and vidhata! I have drunk the mon placed in the urn by your command. 
Some people do not understand the language even after thinking with their mind. Some people don't even listen to the language. In front of someone, language immerses her body in such a way that a woman with adornment robes and wishes for a husband displays her body in front of the husband. 
 O man of death! Agni is a part of you. Air is your second part 
Vaishvanar Agni has enabled the stotras and weapons done by the Maharishis and has achieved the famous fame and food or has made them heaven. (3)
Hey Mon! You transcend the three realms and publish the dulok. You move the sun by moving. 
The husband and wife who love the yajna give money to the appropriate characters by giving a greeting to the devas and combine the male and female genitals for the sake of procreation. They serve the gods. 
Truth, sun-like Brahman and all seasons are protecting me. For this reason, sin cannot come near me which causes dwelling in hell, I remain invisible in the same way as the creatures hidden in the invited water are not visible to anyone. I invite and sanctify myself to be safe from sins. (29)
Hey Mon! You fall down from the stream by which you have illuminated the sun, inspiring the waters of man's benefit. 
O Mon! You are as bright as the sun. You attain purity through speech. You go to Dronakalsh while making a sound. 
O Gods! I have destroyed many of my sins by being among you, though I am a human being. Just as the father stops the son, so you have kept me in discipline. Oh, God! Keep me away from bondage and sin. Don't kill me just as the bird kills the Father in front of the Son. 
We worship indra, who is rich in the holy food, the great, the eternal young and the praiseworthy. The infinite earth and the sky cannot limit the glory of Indra worthy of yajna. 
Oh, God! The one who performs the yajna in the beloved day you have protected, which attacks the enemies, who increases his dwelling place, gives you more pleasure in order to prevent you from going to another place. 
Hey Mon! We look at the sun forever because of your sacrifices and protections. You do our loan. 
Hey Mon! The desireful Indra drinks you and behaves like a bull. By drinking your all-seer Som, Indra becomes a behobhnagyana and attacks the food of the enemies in the same way as the horse goes towards the battlefield. 
Som has told me that there are herbs in the water, there is a agni that brings happiness to the world and there are all kinds of herbs. 
The goddess killed, slaughtered badly. (11)
Indra Dev is the foster. Three goddesses increased them. Bharti Touches Goddess Swarglok and Rudra Yagya. Saraswati, Ida and Vasumathi touch the house. May the three goddesses be pleased to hold money for the host. Please the host to perform yajna for this. (18)
 O Mon! Aap Sharyanavat 
In the yajna that the gods expanded, in that yajna, the Supreme Man was tied as the animal of Havi, in that yajna, there were seven paridhis and twenty-one samidhas. (15)
O agni! You're bright. This ghee is increasing your body. Your flames shine and rise and go up to the sky, we have taken the voice with our heart. This bani should be more fast and satisfying Vishnu. (17)
May Indra Adi Dev protect this brahmachari with upanayana sanskar. Protect it forty-nine. All beings should protect it in such a way that it can be free from sin. (4)
Praised by the Psalms, The Vaishnavars ascend to heaven as the back of space like agni chirantan. They, like the ancient sages, roam the path of the sky like the gods, always being enlightened, giving money to the host of praise. 
O Indra! With the grace of your mighty, proud rays awaken beings when they are in constant harmony. O Celestial, the furious, the giver of force to defeat enemies and the ancient Indra! You, together with the most mighty maruts, give us food. 
All the gods cannot resist the earth etc. and yajnaadi created by Indra. Indra had possessed the earth, the sky and the realm from the space. Shobhankarma Indra created the Sun and Usha. 
O river Ganga, Yamuna, Saraswati, Shuturi, Parushni, Marudriddha, Vitasta, Sushoma and Arjikia living with Asikni! You listen to my praise and accept it. 
O Indra! If you are pleased with our given mon, give us thousands of money and consider giving money to the havyadata host. 
Who knows this. He is protected from the upward direction by two months of shishir season. The sky and the sun adapt to it. (18)
O agni! You are worshiped by animals in the yagna with honey (etc. You are all-love. You're going to do the best. You seem dear to everyone. (13)
We praise the lord of wealth and the wide-paced agni for friendship. The masters of multi-wording and wealth strike the power in the agni through the hymns of Rittvis and Havya. 
What heroic deeds should I describe of Vishnu, who has created the worlds in the form of earth? Vishnu has taken heaven, a place of a higher level than this. Vishnu, praised by great men, has created this by keeping feet in the earth, space and sky. (1)
 O Indra! You are a knight and a donor and inspire humans on the path of peace. Just as the flame of agni is, so you heat enemies. 
O Jataveda and Vishadar Agni! You give it money containing shobhan putradi. O you who are good deeds! Destroy the monsters. 
O sacrificial instruments! You are the leader. Accept your responsibility and lead everyone towards progress. Savita Dev is the master of the world. Please bless you with sufal medicines. You touch the heights of heaven, complete the space world with best thoughts. Please imbue the earth with the best of your deeds. (2)
O self- We know your origin. You are nirbhuti i.e. the son of poverty and the instrument of Yamraj. We know you very well, so you save us from evil self-respect. (6)
Listen and I will explain to you what that field is and what its nature is. I will also explain how change takes place within it, from what it was created, who the knower of the field of activities is, and what his powers are.
Trita, the son of Astya, who knew his father's weapons and inspired by Indra, fought. He killed trishira, who had seven rashmis, and snatched away the cows of Vishwaroop, the son of Tvashta. 
O sacrificial energy! We embrace you with the life-giving inspiration of Savita Dev. We receive you from the hands of Pusha Dev with the arms of Ashwini Gods. You are going to cover Aditi, the mother of the gods. (1)
The power of Indra, the son of Prajapati, who sustains the universe, serves the host who praises him, arises in the cave-like heart to actually obey the hosts, is located in the house and yagnakarma of the host, arises for the fulfillment and happiness of the hosts and obeys the hosts. 
O Indra! Sing in the districts of the anirya people will do nothing for you. They do not give milk to be mixed in somras and can't light up the yajnapatra with their milk. Oh, this maghwa! They will sing, bring us and give us the wealth of the glory. You give us the wealth of the people of the lowly lineage. 
 O Indra! Your beloved Somerus fulfills the desire. This sweet powerful Somersa is filtering for you. It is going to give hundreds, thousands of types of money. Som has been sitting in the yagna since ancient times. 
Human beings praise agni. The child born of king Nahush praises agni. For the agni yajna, the beneficial ones listen to the gandharvavachan. The path of agni is dipped in ghee. 
I call upon the same Indra and Agni, whose heroic deeds have been described by the sages, and who do not do violence to their stoes. 
Restraining all the gates of the body and fixing the mind in the heart region, and then drawing the life-breath to the head, one should get established in steadfast yogic concentration.
Vishwamitra, the great one, who saw the meanings after the senses, the bright bright bright, attracted by the bright, the brightest, the one attracted by the bright, and the preacher of man, Vishwamitra, had stopped the watery stream. When Vishwamitra performed the yajna of Sudas, Indra behaved in love with the Kushikgotriya sages. 
Sacrifice is powerful. (13)
I receive the havi, am adorned by hosts and bear the vows for the gods. I've been to sompan several times. 
They perform yajna for the divine god. They hold the age for them. We worship them with trishtupanda. They hold money for us. They give us money. May the host please perform yajna for them. (40)
They rip the Jupiter clouds through the glass of the tree. They are inspired by eve and get the cows they desire and say words again and again. (5)
O Anjan! You are the destroyer of the pain caused by demons, vampires, etc. You know the essence of nectar. You are the guardian of living beings because of the prevention of evil. You are going to remove the blackness caused by Pandu disease. (3)
That king becomes great by taking possession of the wealth of enemies and his subjects without hindrance and Dev protects him, who gives money to the rich and willing brahmin. 
There are hundred horses of golden color, hundred chariots made of gold, hundred balls made of gold and hundred gold nishkas i.e. coins or ornaments. (5)
The sky is Indra and the earth is Jupiter. (6)
Fire is the protector, conscious, awake and subtle of human beings. They carry the power with their flames. They touch heaven. They are dahuman and shining. They are pure and pure and are vast by disgust. (27)
O madhupriya ashwinikumaro! Just as the messenger goes forward to welcome the friend, so this Somaroopi fund is resolved by us for you. Come before us with an unruly heart and eat the present human being in human beings. 
O monstrous who makes cruel words! May the demons you have sent to us bring poverty back from us. Let the weapons you have also return. Your retainer thieves also go away. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. You eat his meat. (6)
O God of Agni! We do the penance that can be done near you through the form of samadhidhan etc. Through that penance, we become dear, old and endowed with the best holding power of the veda mantras studied. (1)
O Caminio! All of you stay close to the girl. Don't get away from the front of this. May Pusha Dev, who inspires and follows the path, inspires you. To fulfill the wish of this groom, may Vishwa Dev inspire the woman who wishes you to go near him. (4)
Indra who raises his hand and drives away the enemy armies, who has destroyed the force of demons from all sides, Indra who won the waters in the clouds and who received the songs stolen by the panis, may he redeem us from sin. (2)
O hosts! We, who break the kush and remove the lust, call agni for you. Fire is always present in the house, and he is going to wear the sacrifice of all the subjects. 
I cover all these enemies with lethargy, distraction, moneylessness, sorrow, lack of word, fatigue, drowsiness and unconsciousness. (9)
Tell us about the God in whose body the first imagined east, west, etc. are located in the form of nadis and where the yajna does the might, tell me who he is? (16)
O agni skilled in defeating enemies! By listening to our praises, give us such welfare, the child, the one with the son-grandson and the best of wealth, which the violent enemies cannot hinder. 
I make your king enter with his wife and subjects in the bed-bearing pur that the yajna has appeared with dakshina to protect. May that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (6)
O gods worthy of somers! You add horses to the chariots, clean the decks and decorate the horses. You bring the chariot containing the eight places of sarathi to the yagna with the sun. It is through this chariot that the Devas come to the yagna. 
You are tolerant and tolerant. You defeat the enemies. You are a thousand hair. Please make us win. (26)
Let us get the agni which is a special means of yajna and extends to the close of the gods in the form of the inaudible, and the agni called from all sides. 
O husband! You touch your wife. Be happy and produce both of you children. Savita Dev increase your age. (39)
O Swami Ashwinikumaro of Kalyan! Friends and Varun! Protect us from your speed. The host protected by them gets more wealth and escapes from the widespread sins like a desert. 
Ida Devi, Saraswati Devi and Bharati Devi, the three goddesses, May Marudagana be pleased to hold strength and life for us. May the great verses, senses and milk-giving cow be pleased to hold strength and age for us. (19)
O ruler Indra! Drink the somp that we have squeezed with your friends, the maruts and gods. The maruts you served to help in the war, the maruts who helped you as masters in the war, the same maruts made you mighty. That's when you killed Vritra. 
 O Indra! Those hosts who worship you with new prayers get the best wisdom. You shower nectar on them and provide a thought that makes the mind pure. 
The mantras of the deceitless and all-powerful sages always achieve success. He made his parents young again. 
These agni gods destroy the demons who obstruct in all ways. Agni Dev is light, without death, pure and purifier of all. (26)
All the water present in the world is to wash the hands of this odan and small rivers are the means of mixing this odan. (13)
What is the attachment when man knows that all beings have the same self-essence? What sorrow? He sees the same situation everywhere. (7)
Just as Savita Dev, who is of true religion, wanders in the sky, the three-fold dice play on the gambling plank. These dice do not even come under the control of the furious and the grumpy. The king leans up in front of these dice. 
This is the earth! May you give our brave sons great glory with many services. You give them spinach food with money for the sake of strength and destruction of enmity. 
O enemies, Aschinikumaro! You both come to our house sitting on your chariot to make our house with similar ideas and make our house full of cows and delightful wealth. 
Som gives Indra great pleasure in entering. Som had first received Indra's radiant body. Above the best altar is the location of Mon. Satisfied with somras, Indra goes to all wars. 
O God in the south direction! You come. May all the gods located in all the four directions come here in the yagna and free us from sin. (18)
 With the desire of our protection, we convey havi and praise to Agni and Indra. We worship both the gods with wisdom and mind. 
O you guys! Water containing wealth and beneficial for living beings is coming towards our yajna. You install the water. These waters are introduced to the God of Rain i.e. The Apanpat. Install this water to be mixed with somras on the kushas. 
The earth on which two-legged birds like geese, coves, vultures, etc. roam, on which the air blows dust and drops trees and when the air is sharp, agni also moves with it. (51)
In the presence of Bheeshma, Dronacharya, and all the other kings, Shree Krishna said: O Parth, behold these Kurus gathered here.
O workman Indra! May the raining heaven increase you. O Indra who rains! You are carried by horse-full of desire. He is the one with the chin, the one with the kalyani varshi rath and the thunderbolt Indra! In battle you protect us. 
Seven stunning rays make sunlight effective. The wise know the importance of this. These suns climb on the world and spread their brightness everywhere. (4)
Hey Indra! Your horses are going to move quickly. I praise him in this huge yagya. You are the slayer of the enemies. I ask for my desired result from Indra, who has the power generated from Sompan. Just as butter is poured into a fire, similarly Indra showers wealth by coming with his own named horses. (1)
O Lord Indra! You are bright and huge. Please drink Somers. Somers is sweet. We invoke you in yajna. You protect your people in every way. You nurture the people and publish them multiplicity. (30)
O Indra! First, you know who is the Aryan and who is the bandit? After this, you destroy those who oppose the sagittal yajnas and bring them under the control of the hosts. You are powerful, so be the helpers of those who perform yajna. I also want to praise the psalms for all your deeds of the yajnas that make you happy. 
O Shankhpushpi! You arise by swallowing the symptoms of misfortune completely. You create my good fortune. O herb! You have a hundred branches and thirty-three roots. O woman! Through this thousand-leaf shankhpushpi, I am angrily torment your heart with agni. (1)
The hostile Indra destroyed the unbeatable armies and destroyed the property of the deity's opponents. In a special month like the sun draws the juice of the earth, in the same way Indra snatched away the wealth of the enemy cities. 
Whoever knows this, two months of summer from the south direction protect him and Yajnayagya and Vamdev are favorable to him. (6)
Wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go with the help of initiation and penance, the moon should take me there. May Chandra Dev imbibe his mind in me. May chandra dev get this sacrifice well. (4)
The rays are women, but they are men. Only those with eyes can see them, not blind. Only those who are revolutionaries know this. The one who knows those rays is also the father of the father. 
The one who knows this will accept the donation of Vasha Gau. Yasha, moving from all feet, that is, becoming stable, gives all the virtuous fruits to the person who donates vasha cow. (27)
O more powerful, many doers, more intelligent and revered Indra! You have pervaded the world by worldwide importance. 
The woman who gets another man even after knowing the former husband as vagdan, they are never separated from donating aj in the form of Panchodan. (27)
O Ashwinikumar! You became lucky to find a groom for the aging fortuneless Ghosha in the father's house. You are unable to walk and become protectors of the very low jatis. People call you not only the blind and the weak, but also the vaidya of the yajna. 
O god! You are a trivia. We refer you to the Trivrit. You are open. We tend you to the character. You are closed. We prompt you to close. You are Akram. We tend you to akram. You are the infection. We prompt you to transition. You are reversed. We tend you to reverse. You are excited. We urge you to excel. (9)
O Rudra Dev! There are thousands of types of weapons in your arms. Please turn those weapons away from us. (53)
The deserts are as admirable and quick-moving as horses, with wealth-holding chariots, with a daint like a chariot-carrying swayams, carrying water like the saritas, and who sing like many forming Angiragotrian sages. 
O Taurus! You rise and destroy the dream. After this you set. You come again, so that we plan the yajna karma in the interest of all of us. Indra is the best of all. (21)
O Dhanaswami Indra! I hold on to the adornment curb of praise for you. Inspired by this, you crush your elephants who destroy the enemy army. This is your residence in Somyag. You become seventeen and listen to our praises in the yajna. 
Yami- O Yama! I am saddened by your weakness. Your mind is not in me. I still can't understand your mind. You will belong to another woman. (15)
 O Indra! You are sitting on the best chariot. You are the best warrior, the master of food and strength. You are the protector of gentlemen. All our prayers praise you. 
 O Mon! You give us all kinds of happiness. You give us all kinds of money. Please flow to fulfill our thousands of wishes. 
O men! The one who killed the Vritra and swept away the seven rivers, who liberated the cows stopped by the force asura, who produced the electric agni from the friction of the two clouds and who destroys the enemies in the battlefield is Indra. 
O agni! You see a lot of places evenly. Therefore you are the master of all the people. We call you into battle. 
Jupiter, who follows the yajna and in all the three places through the word, has stabilized the ten directions with his power. Jupiters with a pleasant tongue were established at the forefront by ancient sages and meritorious people. 
In humans, that bull is like Indra. That bull is dharma. He roams in the form of the sun giving energy and light to the whole world. He who knows the importance given by us to the bull especially enjoys all the pleasures and does not come into the world after giving up the body with shobhan child. (3)
You should worship the stones that are more powerful than Aditya, those who work faster than the sudhanva, the ones that are faster than the wind for the somabhishava, and more than the agni. 
Oh, a deathless agni! The host who gives you a greeting, or serves you with a garland in his hand, the host who speaks the psalms should not be rich and the suffering of the violent cannot touch him. 
While going towards the kalash by wording, listening to the praises of the psalms, the green soma makes the medicines fruitful, crosses the Dashapavitra and flows fast, kills the demons and gives the hosts a selectable wealth. 
O Rudra Dev! Those who live in heaven, those who rain arrows like rain, we greet them in the east direction. We greet them in the west direction. We greet them in the north direction. We greet them in the south direction. Salutations to those Rudras. May we get happiness and protection through Rudragana. Those who hate us, those whom we hate. Rudragan keep such people in your molars (press). (64)
O men! The one before whom the earth and the sky bow down, whose power the mountains fear, and the one who is the doer of sompan, the strongest body, with firm arms like a thunderbolt and holding the thunderbolt in his hand, is Indra. 
Agni Dev, who gives purity, illuminates the hearse agni to be pure. That agni goes on sacrificing its sin. Purify him this holy agni. (11)
Saraswati, the interrupted part of my body, which was upset to say clearly to the donors to ask and my part which was disturbed near the people to ask, should make that interrupted part of my body irritated and complete it with disgust. (1)
O stones! Be yourself laborless, without exhausting others, free of fatigue, without being relaxed by others, without dying, diseaseless, with the speed of rising and falling, without the power of adornment and being unshakable. 
There are hundreds of might in Indra, who protects yajna karma. We should serve them. (7)
Indra's wife drowned Kamadeva in water with his wife Aadhi i.e. anxiety, because he was suffering in his disconnection. O woman! I am for you torment that Cupid with the power of Varuna, the swami of water. (3)
O agni! You give us your importance. You increase our good fortune. May you be more successful from heaven. You connect the host couple with love. Lower the reputation of those who are hostile to the host. (12)
O medicine! Remove leprosy and the disease of whitening the hair in the untimely and destroy it by removing it from the body. O patient! You get the first color of your hair to be retrieved. O medicine! You remove the white color of this. (2)
O medicine! You are the best of those medicines who are the subjects of Soma Raja, uncountable and very skilled. You fulfill the desire and give peace to the mind. 
O agni! You are Indra's home. You are the one who travels everywhere, the man of all, the soul of all and the body of all. I have come to aap's shelter along with all my colleagues. (11)
Swaha for the deserts. May this desire touch heaven from all sides. Please may this Havi protect us. Sweetness should be established. (13)
O jalyukta mon! You go to the huge yajnashala covering the water. O king of the holy chariot, Mon! You're going to war. O Mon of infinite passage! You win a lot of food for us. 
O Indra! The shobhan annarup som that you used to wear in the past days, still wish to drink the same som every day. O Indra! Drink the mon in front of you wishing for our welfare from the heart and heart. 
 O agni! You live like home in the clouds. Cows come towards you in the place of sacrifice. Horses come towards you at a fast pace. The hosts of the havi come towards you. We worship you. Please provide plenty of food to the hosts. 
O nishchading and incorruptible Mon! You shower food containing cows from all around for our yajna. 
The solutions are false. Dig the earth. Som's protectors and benefactors. Along with agricultural production, sheep, goats, fortified, cows provide the best horses to flow chariots. (71)
This is a disease-killer! You enter into all forms and grow up as our friend and soothing. 
The path of agni is sharp and the form of the agni is extremely bright. They eat grass etc. from the mouth like horses. They run their tongues on the wood like a floor and melt the gold like a goldsmith. 
O deserters! Indra is the greatest of you. The God named Pusha is your giver. You all listen to our call. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You must give a great wealth with many sons and grandsons soon. The ritvijs of Purumidh have praised you and the rituals of Ajmidh have supported him. 
Indra had broken twenty-one mountain peaks by his thunderbolt without anyone's help. Neither God nor human beings can do the work that Indra has done. 
O fire! Just as you give us wealth worth of choice and worship, so you give us a son who attracts everyone, is excited and skilled in education. Fire extends both realms to the base of its mass just like its rays. Shobhanayagyakara Agni expands the devastostuti in our yajna. 
The agni gives the psalms a son who does the deeds, who faces the enemies and fulfills the best deeds. Seeing him, enemies afraid of his power begin to tremble. 
O JataVeda, the divine and the global agni by all! You give us the same radiant grain by which you protect wealth and give a great record to the human being. 
 O Indra! You exist in space. We are your friends. We call upon you with the best prayers. With your influence and grace, we get sons and grandsons. 
It is through this abhichar karma that this king has attained perfection and destroyed the enemies. Its image is beautiful. O Soma and Rudra! You are armed with weapons. Give us happiness by giving victory in this war. (6)
The enemies who are willing to violence others, who come from the upward direction and do violence to those who worship Me at night, they should get Jupiter with world gods for their destruction. (10)
Oh my friend and Varun! Come to our havanyukta yajna and complete our transit-land by water as well as by food. Who will give you the best thing in this world besides us? Give you the best water in space. 
May those Indras set up their beautiful chariots in front of us to give us the desired fruits, whose violence cannot be violent. 
Indra has stabilized the constellations while lighting the sky. These constellations are stable. No one can bring them down. (4)
O men who dispute! I do harmonious deeds for you which is free from hatred and mutual love. Just as a cow loves its calf. In the same way, you also love each other. (1)
All activities are carried out by the three modes of material nature. But in ignorance, the soul, deluded by false identification with the body, thinks itself to be the doer.
O Indra! These yagyas, the Kshatriyas named Sudasvanshi Bhoja, their priests, many angiragotriya sages and gods, may the son of The Lord Rudra, the son of Balvan Rudra, increase my wealth by giving great wealth to Guru Vishwamitra in this ashwamedha yajna. 
O Maruto! When you come on a chariot pulled by horses with bunks and with strong wheels, the water rains, the trees in the forests are broken, the clouds formed and rained by the sunkillers roars downwards. 
O cow! Just as the wheel of the chariot is related to the dimensions and the mind of the man who wants to surat is engaged in the woman, in the same way, your mind should be engaged in your calf. (3)
Just as the habitat of Gandharva is space, similarly the cause of these medicines is water living between the sky and the earth i.e. in space. Whatever is immovable and movable in this world, the shelter of all of them is also water. Vidhata Manu etc. also do not know it. (2)
Bring this aj and start the yajna karma. Knowing that it should also go to the world of the saints. He overcame many types of vast darknesses and reached the third heaven. (1)
May space, that is, the middle world, give us protection. May these two dyavas and the earth give us protection. We should get protection from the back, from the front, from the top and from the bottom. (5)
O Maruto! The power of your knowledge is unlimited. You own the power. O great Maruto! Be widely beautified and fill the sky with your brightness. The chariots of the maruts walk behind the water. 
You have pervaded the sea of the three worlds. You are the master of heaven. You are powerful. You are able to add power to the favorers (units used in world manufacturing). You settle the animals and go to the same world where those who do good deeds have already reached. (31)
The place of origin of the maruts remains the sky constant. The sky is like the mother of the maruts. Birds can come out in the sky. The force of the maruts separates the earth and the sky. 
Bhog and Vedamantra were her ornaments for the sacrificial bride of her husband's house. The verse named Kurir became the ornament of his body. Both Ashwinikumar was walking in Surya's house and Agni Dev was walking in front of him. (8)
A special medicine named Kooth has originated in Dulok. It came from Mount Himwan protecting us. May he destroy all the painful diseases and destroy all the demons. (1)
Just as wishing women go to the husband who can conceive in them, so you receive our praises. (10)
O Dhanaswami Indra! In your yajnas, may we be happy in our home as leaders of the psalms, your friends and your beloved. Subdue the kings named Turvash and Yada, giving happiness to Sudas, who worship the guests. 
That's the look of that. From this, he gives us fruit. The one who donates aj published from Dakshina in the form of Panchodana, he gives strength to the aj donor with food. (24)
The sages who composed the twenty kandas, that is, the sages who composed the twenty kandas, should get this sacrifice well. (18)
In the yajna, where the Brahmin, who knows the mantras of Dixit Atharvaveda, sits on the seat of golden Kushas, bhadra purush or welfare elements gather, there the vasha cow is present as a food provider and a means of yajna. (17)
Hey Mon! When you cross the dasapovithra made of sheep's hair, streams with your honey form. O pure and holder Mon! You sift towards the cow's milk and complete Aditya with your fastness while being produced. 
O agni! Don't move this spoon around. This is the beloved of the gods who drink somras. This is for the sompan of the chamas devas. God without death is pleased to find it. 
O agni! You wish for my hymn to be satisfied. O agni that does the best!  You all know what is worth knowing, you should command the Psalms to sing. The gods do their duty by seeing your work. 
The streams of The Mons desirous of impressing the desireful, squeezed gods flow with their power. 
There was penance and karma in the ocean of the holocaust period. Tapa was born out of karma. They were worshiping Brahman, who was created due to dhata etc. creation. (6)
Oh my friend, Ritvizo! Add the bull to the ploughs, expand the yokes and sow the seeds in the field presented here. May the grain be in sufficient quantity with our praises. Our swan fell on a nearby ripe crop. 
Just as the sailor who holds the helm drives the boat, in the same way I drive away the enemies by the strength of Kamadeva, Indra, King Varuna, Vishnu and Savita and with the sacrifice of the gods. (6)
Indra had donated horses, the sun and the cows that came to the consumption of many people. Indra donated the golden money and followed the Aryavarna by killing the bandits. 
Like friends, we should do defense work unanimously. O angry man! I press your anger under a heavy stone. (2)
Fifty-five types of gand malas located in the upper part of the throat permeate the arteries of the upper part of the throat. All of them should be destroyed in such a way that all the defects are destroyed by getting pativrata. (1)
O lord of all, Indra and the wind! The famous hosts, praising with a true heart and becoming bright, by their deeds, draw your chariots into their yagnas, which are worthy of being pulled by the heroes. In the yajna, the food in the form of havan serves you. 
Hey Ritvijo! Sing praises to Mon while being learned and pure. Just as the huge stream of rain crosses the barrier and moves forward, so the soma rasarupi move forward by crossing the grain. Just as the snake leaves its earthworm, so much soma juice leaves its creeper. The rainy and green-coloured Som goes from Dashapavittra to Dronakalash, playing like a horse. 
 O agni! You are revered in yajna. Host the gods for the host. Those who call the gods, you are adorned by defeating the enemies. 
Hota performed beautiful chhagas (medicines) for Ashwinikumars. Hota prayed to the Rishabhs for the glorious Indra Dev. Hota used these medicines for Saraswati Devi. The hosts offer paddy, kheel, refined succulent honey chewing soma etc. to the devas. Both Ashwinikumar, Vaibhavvan Vritra Destroyer Indra Dev, Saraswati Devi drink this sweet Someras. Be mad. He was! You also perform the same yajna. (42)
Be calmed by the grace of gods like meat eaters Agni Savita etc. The agni that causes violence to men should also be pleasant. I have calmed down the agni that burns all and is the meat-eater. (9)
 When the chariot of both of you Ashwinikumars flies up like a bird, then stotras are also read in heaven for both of you. 
The Maharishi born in Bhrigugitra speaks praise while churning out the fire in the arani for the purpose of donating the havya. He is a virtuous and a flamboyant, a virtuous and a flamboyant, describing the qualities of both Maharishi Shraut and Smarta agnies. The masters of the illuminated fire wealth are the yagyakars and the ones who consume the beloved well. Meritorious fires also offer part of the yagna to other gods. 
Yama- O Yummy! I cannot be going to fulfill this wish of yours. I can't touch your body. So you should now establish this kind of relationship with another man except me. I don't wish to make you a wife. (13)
This food is thirsty and bitter. This food is disgusting and poisonous. It is not edible. The Brahmin who teaches Surya this kind of education is definitely eligible to take bride-related clothes. (29)
Hey Mon! Raise us well and pour into the kalash the most admirable liquid for the gods by all your rays. 
O permission! Today, you get our yajna recognized among the gods. May the agni of Havi Sister be kind to be generous to us. (9)
The arrows of our warriors, which are arms and force, swords and arms in the form of fur, are the work of killing the enemies resolved in the mind, O effort of The Sage Arbud! Show all this to our enemies. Show us the monsters and vampires roaming in space to bite the enemies. (1)
"Som offers milch cows to the hosts who offer them sacrifices. Such hosts provide fast horses. They give heroic sons to the hosts. Som provides a domestic son. They provide a hardworking son. They provide a skilled and obedient son in patriarchy. (21)
O Indra! Whatever I ask of you, you give me. Give me a big house that no one has. Give us this. You give us the yearly and bizarre wealth. 
Aj first of all, devised, then his stomach became the land, the back, the space was the middle part, the ribs were directions and the wombs were the ocean. (20)
Ahirbudhnya, Aj, Ekpat, Earth, Sea and all the gods please listen to our praises. May all these gods please increase the truth. We all invoke God. We all praise God. All these devgans of the poet host should be protectors. (53)
O Indra! You come and give us money worthy of enjoyment for money. O Dhanswami Indra! Give a cow to the one who wants me a cow and give a horse to the one who wants the horse. 
O Saraswati! You come on the same chariot with your fathers, satisfying yourself. Satisfy many people and people and give part of the food and the strength of the food to my host. (43)
The yogi who is established in union with me, and worships me as the Supreme Soul residing in all beings, dwells only in me, though engaged in all kinds of activities.
 O Mon! You are the best for the gods. You are going to serve the interest of human beings. You squeeze by priestly stones. O hosts! You add water to this somerus. 
 O agni! Don't light up for you guys. You install the sun in heaven. The sun, which is not dilapidated, is the giver of light everywhere. 
O god worthy of sacrifice! Come in front of us at this time. I may find refuge in your heart in fear. Oh, God! Save us from the violence of the wolf. O Yagyapatro! Save us from those who plunge us into adversity. 
O enemey destroyers and deities of Manu's yajna! You are thirty-three, you are praised by saying so. 
Swadha for the ancestors, Salutations for Swadha. Swadha for pitamahas, salutations for swadha. Swadha for pitamahas, salutations for swadha. The ancestors adopted a diet dedicated to the form of Havi. By consuming that diet, I got satisfaction. Fathers also satisfy us. May the ancestors please purify our lives. (36)
O Indra! No one can stop your money. Devas cannot do your wealth otherwise and human beings are not able to erase your wealth. Pleased with our praise, if you want to give money to us, no one can destroy that wealth. (4)
The lights are put into practice in many places for the sake of the same agni yajna. They sleep on the altar and live in a wooden aranis divided into them. One of their earth-celestial parents fills them as soon as they are born and the other mother only holds them. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
The deserts have become more than heaven and earth from their own bodies, just as the sun is greater than the clouds. Like desert men, those who seek praise and enemies are as bright as human beings. 
May the gods sanctify me. May man sanctify me through wisdom or deeds. May all beings sanctify me and may the air that moves in space sanctify me. (1)
Vaishvanar swallow this bad self.. (4)
O deserters! Add the deer with bunks to the chariot, inspiring the clouds for the sake of food production. At that time, the stream of water coming out of the bright sun soaks the whole earth. 
O Indra! You come to us soon. O son of sage Kushik! Be happy and do sompan, extend our life to perform praiseworthy yajnakarma by the gods and make my sage with thousands of riches. 
O agni! May you and Indra of supreme opulence gladly accept our given havi. Demons, bandits who eat everyone and evil people roaming around should be destroyed. (3)
We pray through hymns to protect ourselves by asking for vast wealth from varunas. Sage Trinity returned the five hotas of prana, apan, sama, vyan and uddan through the navel chakra to fulfill his wish. 
O agni! We all worship and serve your glorious glory. 
O Indra! The wealth that is worthy of yours by the Brahmins, give us that money on our demand. 
O act! If you are as bound as covered in darkness and trapped in a trap, we drive you away from here and send them to your creators. (30)
O agni the best leader! While approaching you, we give you the greetings by performing the form of yajnas due to the wealth of animals, etc., and defeat the enemies against the gods by giving food with the power of adornment. 
O agni! This host, consumed by you, sees the emergence of the gods. By your grace, people are going to enjoy apsaras like Urvashi etc. By your grace, a person who attains divinity is also the one who grows life located in the uterus. (23)
While being given, Brahmaodan is being praised - "Brahma i.e. Rathantar Sama is the head of this Odan and Brihat Sama is the back of this. The verses of Sama Is ka Pet and Gayatri etc. seen by Vamdev Rishi are on its side i.e. both wombs. The name truth is its mouth. The expanding Brahmaudan session originated from the inner part of yajna Brahma." (1)
For those who have conquered the mind, it is their friend. For those who have failed to do so, the mind works like an enemy.
The sages of the Vasishtha clan worship Indra, who showers wishes and holds vajra in his hand, with stotras. May indra be worshiped through our stotras and give us wealth with sons and cows. O God! You should also always protect us from the curses while following Indra. (6)
O agni! Our praises about you have been fulfilled. It was a routine and a agni! You protect us by being present in our yajnashala. I will become a yajnakarta with your help and get red horses and a lot of money, so that you can get a havan in the best days. 
Performing all works as an offering unto me, constantly meditate on me as the Supreme. Become free from desire and selfishness, and with your mental grief departed, fight!
O Swami! Worship the force of Indra and worship Indra. Indra kills enemies in wars. The suffixes of other men could not climb on their bows. These inspirational Indras have come to know our praise. (2)
O beautiful dan yeshinikumaro! Come here with the same measures by which you rained water from the cloud and protected the praiseworthy chamber for the long-time of Ushija's son and the merchandise. 
If Indra hears our call, it is certain that he, along with thousands of sustainers and grains, will impulse us. 
This divine gem made from the varan tree is located on my chest. Just as Indra destroyed the asuras, so it will destroy my shanrus. (11)
Dhata Adi found the hidden, the one who performed the rites of the havya and the safe sammantra in the cave. Bharadwaja sages brought the great sammantra from Dhata, The Bright savita, Vishnu and Agni. 
O Indra! You are more at a faster pace than Taurus. You are capable of disturbing enemies. Where there is no means of sompan, you do not go there. Thus Indra is the most important. (2)
We praise the agni, which is the doer of the house, which is the refuge of all as a home, whom the cows sing, the fast-moving horses and the hosts who provide the daily greeting please. O agni! You give food to the psalms. 
Ida, Indrani, Diti and Aditi followed him. (20)
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages named Harit. (5)
When he walked towards the north, he went on to make the sacrifice given by the sampratashis as a food and walked in the som. (7)
Aditya Rupi is the only son's three mothers and three fathers. Aditya is not tired. The Gods above the sky say things about the sun that are most concerning, but no one understands them. 
Potters for heating, artisans for Maya, manikars for form, proficient in cutting for auspicious work, ishukar for targeting arrows, bows for armaments, jyankars for karma (string makers), rope makers (rope makers) to command, butchers for death, dog keepers for Yama should be appointed. (7)
O agni! The demon who wants to destroy the juice of our food, who wants to destroy the essence of our cows, horses and children, that enemy, thief and wealth snatcher should be destroyed. He attains destruction from both his body and children. 
Oh, God! This pigeon is the angel of victory and has come to us with the desire to obstruct. By worshipping him we remove this evil. May the welfare of our dasadasis and go, horse etc. 
The most sacrificial agni in the human group and the most sacrificial one in the human group of many hosts is ignited with praise. 
O Parth, the qualities of those who possess a demoniac nature are hypocrisy, arrogance, conceit, anger, harshness, and ignorance.
Like the tongue of satyarup yajna, som drips cute and intoxicating juices. Those who do the word Soma are invincible by the guardians and demons of this yajnakarma. When the soma who illuminates the dulok is squeezed, the host holds a name that even his parents do not know. 
O adhwaryu logo! You prepare a special drinkable somras for the sake of those who seek praise, Mahavira, Indra and Vishnu. They are both unbeatable, noble and situated on top of the mountains in such a way that one sits on a horse capable of reaching the desired place. 
I bind the enemy's distant country and the near-country armies through loops. I also trap the present armies in the middle of the near and the far. Swami Indra of the struggle should abandon such armies and generals. O agni! Tie these Kshatriyas abandoned by Indra with loops. (2)
O Trishandhi Dev! Let carnivorous animals follow the enemy in front of us. You go with our army and enter them to destroy our enemies. (18)
Seven sages like Vishwamitra etc. were born from the body of Indrarupi Prajapati. Eight sages, such as Balkhilya, were born from the upper part of Prajapati's body. Bhrigu etc. born from the previous part of the nine sage Prajapatis. The sages like Angira etc. originated from the foreground. All these sages increase the higher parts of the jhuloka which are part of the yajnansh. 
Just as a cow knowing its calf reaches its abode, we have also seen the path leading to the house of the Kuyava Asura. O Indra! Protect us, do not abandon us in the same way that the maid's husband forsakes wealth. 
The one who donates shataudana cow receives space, heaven, land, adityas, maruts, directions and all worlds. (10)
In the body of those who do the work of prana i.e. breathing and giving up their air, the aura of the sun circulates in the form of prana. It is the sun that illuminates all the worlds. (5)
The total material substance, prakṛiti, is the womb. I impregnate it with the individual souls, and thus all living beings are born. O son of Kunti, for all species of life that are produced, the material nature is the womb, and I am the seed-giving Father.
Destroy the evil disease that is spreading in your uterus with the strength of agni dev mantra. (12)
O Indra who gives birth to all beings! You come with the maruts and break the mourning and the water-bearing ghata to increase your reputation. Oh, God! Gods praise you while being praised. Give us food, strength and long life. 
Vasa brings the son of gau. (15)
Mon, who is wishful, superior in guides, shows everyone, meritorious and special seer. O the wise and the best of the divines, Soma! You reveal the sun in space. 
The host you follow receives all the delightful wealth in front of you. No one can do him violence, but he also gets the same children as himself. 
One who knows the season named Pinvanti, who knows Pinvanti, accepts the opulence of unpleasant enemies and dams. This is the panchaudan form aj, this is the season named Pinvanti. The man who gives the aj illuminated from dakshina in the form of Panchaudan burns the opulence of his unpleasant shanrus and bandhavas with his power. (34)
O Mon, filtering from Dashapavittra! You are illuminated by your entire glory and give us all the wealth from the gods. 
The sages made their parents, who were as dilapidated and lying like a cut wood, young. They, along with Vaj, Vibhu and Ribhu Indra, drink the somras and protect our yagnas. 
Let our hymn go well from the yajnashala to the sun etc. devas. The sun has made rain water from its rays. The Earth is extended by the peaks of its mountains. Fires are ignited over the wide limbs of the earth. 
O great agni! He who brings you fuel and, tired of carrying wood, burns you at night and in the daytime, serving the great radiance, he receives wealth, strengthened by children and animals, destroying the enemies. 
 This somerus is going to be filtered into the holy vessel. It originates on the mountain. You are the happiest of all. 
Sinful men receive the terrible fruit of that nightmare. Those who do good deeds do not see nightmares and attain life to do virtuous deeds. O nightmare! You are happy with the best creator in heaven and are born from death to inform the mind of a man who commits bad deeds. (5)
 When the sun rises, may holy friends, Aryama, Savita and Bhaga please get us the money we want. 
O Indra! Vishnu, Marudgana and Ashwinikumaro! You come to us among the same jati people. 
While imagining the verse of Omkar, the people imagined this chaitanya and dynamic world in the same sense. (19)
O God of skin! If you are pleased, give us such a quick and nourishing semen, by which we may produce efficient, powerful, stone-lifters, god-lifters, deities and brave sons to squeeze the som. 
O God! Listen to this word of mine, you are all worthy of sacrifice. Bhardwaj Muni is reciting scriptures to fulfill my desire. The enemy who hurts my contralateral mind, he should be bound by the sin of witchcraft committed by me and attain the evil of death. (2)
Be a suffering people. (20)
O Savita! Accept our praises. Your speed is capable of getting many yagnas. You protect us from the falling bright weapons of enemies. 
King Som meets in the space and the water located there and rains down the water. The dashapavitroopis are located at a high place when the som is called in the water which is the navel on the earth. Som is going to hold the great dulok. 
O pure, purifying and venerable agni! You are called by the ghrita and are being highly illuminated. 
The sage born in the Vasishtha dynasty has worshipped the godless without death. They are located in all the realms of God. They give us more successful food today. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
O priest! Your mind is happy. Please your speech. May your life be happy. May your eyes be happy. May your ears be happy. O host! End the cruelty of you. Your nature is stable. O priest! Your nature is crooked. May your conduct be pure, may you also purify us. Protect the medicines. You save them from being destroyed. (15)
 O Indra! You are powerful. May Someras make you mad. May you give us splendour. You destroy the malice of Brahmagyan. 
O jataved agni! The enemies who want to do magic on us while performing havan in the east direction and violence us from the east direction, fall into the agni and their opponents should be sad. We return the witchcraft they did and kill them. (1)
O agni! Give us the money that defeats the present demons etc. in the house and suppresses the wrath of the sinful man. 
The flowing rivers flow with the help of the moving Rudra and cover the earth. Indra, who goes all the way, moves all the way, with the help of the maruts, holds great velocity and irrigates the world with great words. 
Just as the son obeys the father, similarly the host listens to Agni's command quickly and acts according to his orders. Agni, The swami of various food grains gives wealth, which is the means of yajna. Agni, who was attached to the yagyagriha, adorned the sky with stars. 
Rivers with water should be havishmati. Water is desirable. May God be divine. Yajna is havishman. The sun is shining. (23)
The drunk som nikhurkar goes to the yagna to give food to the havyadata host. 
O very young, radiant, fulfilling the desire of men and a agni that is set on the north altar! Give him a greater amount of pleasant and good money to protect the host who squeezes som and serves and praises you. 
He is the famous guru, who knows the glory of this odan. (23)
May the sons of Amrit, Vishwaidevaideva, listen to our praises and give us joyful pleasures. 
O aschinikumaro! There have been three somabhisheks from the waters of seven rivers like Indus etc. Three types of havi belonging to three kalash and three sawans are prepared at the base of the waters. You went above the three realms of the earth, etc., and protected the sun in the day-night sky. 
Just as fame prevails in Prajapati and Parameshti, may this gem made of varan tree establish fame and opulence in me and adorn me with glory and glory. (24)
The milk grower comes to sing to soak the mon with his milk. Mon offers everything by listening to the praises. Som yajnakarmas who are skilled in doing karma, rasaukta, meritorious, poet, annayukta and winning the enemy's wealth are purified by yajnakarma. 
O euplate! Do not harm heaven. O euplate! Don't damage space. O euplate tree. You grow on earth. Sharp axe is for your good fortune. The great good fortune of beings is being used to you. Like the hundreds of your branches, let the branches of our family tree grow, (43)
As soon as these many-performing mons are born, they fall into the stream form, giving birth to the grains. 
The bee-bhaktika praised you with honey. I call you to rejoice with sommerspan, the son of Ushij. You had pleased the mind of Dadhichi with the service. His horseman preached to you the beesaw. 
O work! Eat the fruit we desire for you. You get this happiness well. What we have wished, it should be fulfilled in all respects. (5)
May the moon system penetrating Mars etc. give us peace. The Sun affected by Rahu should become the instrument of our power. The antidote comet is going to give us peace. May Rudra with sharp sharpness give us peace. (10)
At the confluence of mountain kandras, mountains and rivers, wisdom is born in Brahmins. (15)
O Ashwinikumaro! You are multi faceted worker, leader and wise. You both listen to our prayers with respectful wisdom. 
We combine the new souls with these three to attain the age of a hundred years. These nine have three threads of gold, silver and iron i.e. wires which are carrying heat. (1)
Hey Mon! You killed the enemy, you took part in the battle every day and you sing and give horses. 
Seven rivers flow for Varuna, the son of waters and full of maruts. For the sake of Indra located in jhlok, human beings perform yagya etc. Those yajnakarmas are the abode of the union of gods and human beings and the sky and the earth become the opulence of these gods and human beings. The sky and the earth strive for these gods and human beings and nourish them with food, water etc. (2)
O agni! You have performed yajna in the past. Let our praise be the growth of words. May my intimate people serve the agni through the samidahas and the human beings. The gods have come from heaven and given knowledge to the psalms. They want to praise the praised and ignited agni. 
O agni! The human-friendly Varundev ignited you in the middle water of the ocean.  The sun that sees humans lit you in a celestial breast. Your third place is in the water between the clouds. The great God increases you. 
O agni! You are the first applicant. You are the eye-opener of men and gods and the guide of all. They are the sinners of those who want yajna. You illuminate such hosts with your light. welfare them. (69)
They especially see the creatures who live between the earth and the sky and in front of King Varuna. Varuna, who calculates their good deeds, decides such a punishment according to their deeds, just as the gambler throws dice for his victory. (5)
Hey Mon! You become a bright one and give happiness to the gods and to the people. 
They are joyous of agni, dynamic, going to both realms and defeating wood. Arani produced the upward, as admirable as the army, the suppression of the enemies, the steady and pleasing agni. 
O full of work and pure Jupiter! With your help we will get the best food. Don't be our masters who wish to defeat us. Let us make virtuous gains by doing the best praises and be the most excellent. 
Hey Ritvijo! Cook the purodash and squeeze the somras for ajatashatru, shatruhata and akshan, the heaven-giver and indra who attains more happiness. They are admired by many and wearing indra stotra. 
Sharp, superior to all medicines, especially enemy destroyers, destroyers demons, who sees the whole world, is the strength of gods and the power of others, it is a protective instrument called Darbha. O men who wish to protect! I tie this kind of darbhamani in your hand to remove your old age and welfare. (4)
This stotao! Praise the praiseworthy, the leader, the enemy defeater, the most giver and the human emperor Indra by praise. 
O Indra, the one who rains! When the som is squeezed and purified, we invite you to drink it. You become satisfied by drinking that joyful som. You get that pleasing som juice specially. (1)
Oh, my father! You also come through the ancient paths by which our forefathers have gone. You look at both yama and varundev- the masters, while you are pleased with swadha there. 
O fastmaruto! After your great arrival, we begin a long-lasting yagna. Your arrival makes our people victorious in war. By such yajnas, I will get your best arrival. 
O Indra! The Angiragotrian sages quickly obtained the friendship of the commensurate cows and took home the milk of the cow which gave the nectar-like milk in the yajna. At that time the same irrigating water as the new property was obtained. 
 O Mon! You come soon. You sit in the urn. The host sanctifies you. You give food and money to the host. Just as the rope of a strong horse is caught with the finger and purified, in the same way, the host sanctifies you and takes you to the Yagyashala. 
O agni! "You place in the sky the sun, which is always moving, unharmed and which gives light to the people. 
This is the earth! In ancient times, a king named Trasadsyu gave money to the people who were asking for money. You gave him the strength to destroy the horse, the son and the bandits. 
O agni! You are dominant than the wind and appear by the desire to complete the beautiful yajna near the host. Seeing your power, the earth and the sky tremble. You have accepted the work of yajna as the best would have been. Because of your residence in the yajna, the yajnas of the revered gods have been completed. 
O yajnapatra Vishwedev! When we are immersed in this yajna, when the agni is ignited, and when I serve you with the hymns, you be satisfied with the havya. 
 O Indra! You are going to do hundreds of deeds. You are a great man. Please please come to this yagna with your horses. 
O agni! Let us be good children and good heroes. Let us nurture the suvirs with good food. Please protect our children, our animals and guardians. (37)
 O Indra! To give light to the world, you established the sun in heaven. 
 Someras reaches out to all the gods with joy. The green somers is filtered with a sieve and cleaned. Soma stops from sins and is the one who defeats the mind 
I have brought Shami, who gave a hundred years of age, knew the remedies for disease, the medicine told by Maharishi Kanva and the destroyer of all diseases, to eradicate the disease of this patient. This Shami form should calm the intermediate diseases of the body and demons etc. which are not visible. (3)
O Indra! You give us a son of food, of the bright, the one who fights, the rich, the rich, the one who is prosperous, the one who is a bewilder, the one who breaks the enemy cities and the true kamo. You give us annual and strange money. 
Vasugana should rejoice on earth in this yajna. Located in wide space and radiant, there is a service of maruts. O fast-moving Vasuo and Maruto! You make your way before us. Listen to the call of this messenger of ours who has come near you. 
 O Indra! You are very rich. You are admired everywhere. We are in your shelter. There is no other god as worshipable as you. We worship you. Accept our words of worship as Mother Earth.' 
When prana i.e. suryakya dev thunders by targeting barley, wheat, and wild trees through cloud sound in the rainy season, then all crops conceive and are produced in many ways. (3)
O ghost! Pusha, a cattle herder who does not commit animal violence, should take you from here to those places. Offer these two, who protect the creatures, to your ancestors. May agni dev hand you over to the gods of opulence. (54)
O friends! O friends! Get up and start swimming. Sarita with stones is flowing fast. Which are unhelpful. Let us leave them here. Let us cross the river and get the food that gives happiness. (27)
All gods have been created by Savita. With Ashwini's arms, we accept you. We accept you in the hands of Pusha Dev. Come, you help us. We pierce and bite the necks of demons. You are huge and very loud. You give speech (mantra) for Indra, that is, recite mantras. (22)
In that God, all the worlds, penance and rit i.e. truth are contained. O God! I know you directly. All this is contained in Indra. (29)
O agni! When asked by Satyarup, The Marudgana, the Great Sun, Goddess Aditi and the Fast Wind, why do you tell them about our sin? O omniscient agni! You go to the gods knowing everything. 
Hota worshiped Prajapati with the glorious Soma. Prajapati is requested to please drink that Someras. You are also requested to do the same. (64)
 O Mon! You are a commander and a hero. You wish to give money like cow etc. for the host. You walk ahead of the chariot. Seeing you boosts the morale of the army. You make Indra's prayers welfare for friends and hosts. You are stunning. 
O Indra! You are the master of heaven. Increase the host and the host with the same arms that you raise to kill demons. Increase the faith that is devoted to you. (2)
O Lord Sabrita! We call upon you. You are a protector, rich, motivator and an asset to all. (4)
O Shur Indra! You flowed the water that was stopped by the vitter. Because of you, the rivers come out like chariots. The whole world trembles with your fear. 
The womb donor is beautiful, intelligent, glorious and patient. Prayers of one post, two posts, three posts, four verses, eight verses, prayers should be broadcast in bhuvanas. This sacrifice is dedicated to you. (30)
 O Indra! Please thank us, including you Adityas. You make our yajna a success. You make our body healthy. You make our progeny successful. 
O Rohit Dev, the criminal of the angry deity and the violent of the learned Brahmin, the five directions, the six urvis, the four waters and the three letters of the yajna in which they are dependent, who sees with his angry eye between the sky and the earth, O Rohit Dev! Make the staggering attenuated and tie in your loop. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! These things are built for you. You must come. This som is present to the yadu and turvashu kings, is made for you and given to the sons of Kanva. 
We call Indra to drink Soma through our praises. Indra comes to our yajna many times. (4)
O Indra and Som! You torment the demons and destroy them. That's all you want! You bring down the monsters growing in darkness. You destroy the ignorant demons, burn them, kill them, throw them away, and injure the man-eating monsters. 
This aproksha Brahman has been interviewed by the gods. This Brahman is illuminated by its light and excellent of all. Brahman, the most extended and admired Veda-form Brahman, has been born. All the gods like agni etc. were born with the nectar they consumed. (23)
The soon-to-be-born, dripping into the characters, knowing everything, green and undisciplined, go to the desire-filled Indra. 
Near Rudra, who is a stuti-palak, a yajnarakshak and a man with soothing herbs, we beg for pleasures like Jupiterputra Shanyu. 
May our oj come to fruition with this yajna. May our tolerance come to fruition with this yajna. May our self-confidence be fruitful with this yajna. May our physical strength come to fruition from this yajna. May our happiness be fruitful with this yajna. May our armor come to fruition with this yajna. May the perseverance of our ashes come to fruition from this yajna. May the firmness of our treaties come to fruition with this yajna. May our well-being be fruitful with this yajna. May our life come to fruition with this yajna. May our maturity come to fruition with this yajna. (3)
I have stopped the poison that you have that pollutes the water within. I receive your best and medium juice, that is, poison. That juice means that your poison is destroyed. (2)
Today we pray for more protection from the best, great and unique gods. Today we pray to the gods for the same special protection so that we can get wealth and children. 
O mighty and good-working agni! You always bring our yajna closer to the gods. O agni of the gods! Give us food and more money. 
Just as the hawk bird goes into its nest with the word 'yam', so the word 'mon' is played by the snort, and goes to dronkalash. 
Aditimata is a well-protected, extending from earth to heaven, very pleasant, giving good shelter, flawless, removing the fear of death. Let us climb with your grace in this boat with no holes, which runs automatically, without holes. We climb on it for our welfare. (6)
O agni! You come before us and be friendly and action-oriented, just as there are friends to friends and children to friends. Humans have become enemies of human beings. You consume our adversary enemies. 
O Indra! If your godly man is somewhere, I will give him every day. O rich Indra! We have no jati and father other than you. 
O Cupid! The power by which Indra pushed the demons into the terrible darkness of death and the power by which the devas drove away the asuras, you should drive my enemies away from this world through the same power. (17)
O gem! Indra adi dev knows your effect by removing the patient from planetary disorder. Brahmins and trees also know this influence of yours. O patient! All the gods on earth know that your unconscious attains consciousness. (4)
Indra should come before us with the help of horses named Hari to protect us and provide us with money. Vajradhari, lord of wealth and the Great Indra should come to this yagna of ours after appearing in the war. 
The enemy who wants to kill me who does not want violence and the one who wants to kill the one who wants to kill, I keep it in the molars of the vaishvanar agni. (2)
This is the earth! You have more money to give to the host of the giver. You give us the money that will be destroyed. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
Just as a chariot is prepared for enmity in war, similarly, the green-colored Som, inspired by the Ritvijs, goes to Dashapavitra for the satisfaction of the gods. The sanctified somas receive the hymns of Indra and serve the gods from the other. 
O Indra with wealth! You listen to our praise. You give what your stota wants. The one you fortify must become firm. 
The bull is the father of calves and the husband of cows unfit for violence, as well as the rearer of thundering clouds. The semen, calf, geria (jer) of this bull are like antidote, nectar, ambition and ghee.  (4)
O ghost! May you get the month that I am giving you the makkhan i.e. by churning curd, it should be accomplished by swadha and ghee. (42)
Air is my eyes, air is my soul, god, the presiding deity of space, is my soul and earth is my body. I am immortal or a nameless. O earth! I dedicate my soul to you for safety. (7)
Through faith, the agni is ignited and the havi is put into the agni. You give me the desired fruit. Give the fruits you want to my lovers and my yagyakartas. 
 O Mon! Hosts make you pure. You are watered by water. After adding water, you are installed in Dronakalsh. 
Brahma, glory, fame, water, sky, celibacy, food, the power to digest food and past, future, faith, goal, heaven, self - all these are attained by the knower of Brahma. (1)
O Lord of food and wealth, Ashwinikumaro! At the time we ask for your unsavoury gift to the demons, at that time you hear the east-facing praise of Jamadagni and come as the leader of the yajna. 
These are agni housewives. They are going to give money for our children. O agni! You are the householder. You come with grace and please give us the beauty too. (39)
O beloved sage! Perform yajna with reverence for Indra. Successful gracious Indra is happy to drink somras. 
Agni Usha is published only with the period. These are also published over days. These agnis become the sun and light their rays towards Usha. These solar agnis keep the sky and earth illuminated from all sides. (27)
Just as there are hes in the wheel of a chariot, in the mind in which the mantras of RigVeda, Samaveda and Yajurveda are established, in which the knowledge of the minds of the people is imbued, our mind should be filled with welfare resolutions. (5)
O vishvast! That is, purify it by special ruler black iron weapon. Do not hurt the joints of this. Imagine each addition of this and deliver it to the third heaven. (4)
Best, Medium and Poor - Please accept our greetings in all the three categories. Those who do not do our violence and know our sacrifices, let the fathers who have come to protect our lives protect us in the yagnas. 
O agni! You are the giver of wealth, prosperity and the guardian of the world. We accept you for Vishnu B Soma. O Mon! You are like agni and energetic like them. You welcome the guests who came to the yagna. You are like the Shyen bird bringing Somerus from heaven to earth. (1)
With the help of these mons, all the wealth of human beings will be enjoyed by receiving and wishing to share well. 
The ancient sages praised the Agni. The present sages also praise Agni. Let Agni call the gods to this yajna. 
O Arvan! This horse has gold horns. The legs of this are iron. The speed of this is as fast as the mind. The gods took it as Havi. Indra Dev was sitting on this horse first of all. (20)
 O Indra! You are a mountain dweller, a huge chariot and a worshipper. Hosts with good children offer you havi. You enjoy that havi. You are happy with that havi. May you be more successful with our prayers. Please provide us food. 
O agni! You wake up well (ignite). We hosts enjoy a good sleep. You protect us and enlighten us. You put us in various tasks. (14)
The great agni says that this sin-killing medicine has been well stimulated. We insert the soup into the soups of the fruit tree. (9)
They are obsessed with endless anxieties that end only with death. Still, they maintain with complete assurance that gratification of desires and accumulation of wealth is the highest purpose of life.
This hymn! You used to bring dakshina from the Angiragotriya sages. They brought him, they brought him. (8)
We call the gods for the sake of wealth, the various chariots, the bearers of the yagna like the flag, the white-colored ones, those who go to Indra, Agni revered by the yajmans. 
The god who does Mars expands the seat. The Kauravya husband tells his wife while giving this kind of education. (8)
O death! No one can disturb your rajomoya path. Through that route, I wear the armor of meditation for the man who has come near this death. (10)
O Maruto! Give us wealth, including the son-in-law and grandson of you, and protect the sage who inspired the somapan. Give property to King Sheyavashwa, who performs the divine, and make him happy. 
Indra has perfected both the vast and the earth-sky that meets each other with animals and birds. Both of these are completely permeated by the brightness of Indra. Veer Indra is famous for snatching the property of enemies. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
The Psalms produced the shisha-like agni of heaven, walking on earth, belonging to all people, generated for the sake of yajna, meritorious, brilliant, continuously moving, facelike and protective agni for the yajna of hosts. 
The serpentine that originated from a huge tree named Sycamore is the maid of black snakepin. The serpent which expresses its anger through teeth, its poison gives us sorrow, this poison becomes ineffective. (8)
Intelligent human beings who know the nature of human beings receive wealth that flows, moves and gives happiness like water in the form of both types. Those who keep fulfilling themselves with that wealth and donate that money for the best vessel, those people get dakshina with seven mothers. (30)
Just as the river flows properly, so does the voice sanctified from our heart. These vaanis are like waves of ghee. They run towards the yajna like a scared deer from the hunter. (94)
The lumbar gem with light should be a violator of enemies, a gainer of wealth. May that gem give me an excess of animals and food and an excess of cows. (8)
Regular som by the ancient poets and ritwijas, they speak the words to go to the kalashin. Soma produces water for Indra's sake to befriend Indra and Vayu and drips sweet juices. 
O hero, praiseworthy and great Indra! You are going to conquer the enemies in the war for the hidden wealth of the enemies. 
Wearing the mantras of Richas and Samaveda, Vasha Gau went to the air with all the birds and started dancing on the ocean. (14)
The bull capable of carrying the car is the nourisher of the earth due to ploughing etc. The same bull also holds the sky and space due to being helpful in the origin of charu, purodash etc. The nurturer of the former adi maha directions is also the bull of this dharma. In this way, this bull made by Brahma enters all the worlds like earth etc. to protect them and remains located. (1)
Together with all the water, abhilashani moved towards the ocean like a woman. Indra, who destroys enemy cities and weakens enemies, is the master of all waters. O Indra! The riches and joyous praises of the ancient sacrificial figures on earth went to you. 
Salutations for located in the air. Salutations for located in the Holocaust. Salutations for located in architecture. Salutations to those who follow the architecture. Salutations to Som Dev. Salutations to Rudra Dev. Salutations for copper-like f pink in colour. (39)
Oh drunk Mon! You are the happy ones in our hearts, the happy ones, the careful-minded, the sedentary and the welfare- to-be. 
O Indra! You come to the request of us hosts. Deserts are the rainers of water and are divine. Invite you confidently. You are innovative and furious. You live together. You have been eclipsed in upyam for Indra Dev and Marudgana. Bahi is the original place of Indra Dev and Marudgana. You have been absorbed in the urn to get oz. (36)
 O Indra! You destroy all the wicked. You destroy the enemies that hinder our good work. Please give us the desired money. 
O Indra! The Gautama dynastic sages carrying the hymns have exhorted you by their praises. Give them son-grandson's food. 
We perform yajna to get rid of the sins we have committed in the village, forest and assembly. We perform yajna to be free from the sins we have committed with the senses, swaha for them. (45)
O medicine called lac! You are strengthened by the rays of the moon. So night is your mother. You are born in the rainy season, so the heavens are your father. The sun is your grandfather because of the creation of clouds in the sky. Your name is Silachi and you are the sister of gods. (1)
Those who advise not to donate Vasha, those foolish people themselves are destroyed due to Indra's wrath. (51)
O enemy! I cut off your seven souls, that is, the seven holes of the eyes, nose, ears and mouth, and the eight arteries of your throat through my mantra-related abhichar karma. Go to Yamraj's house with broken limbs. Agni has come like a messenger to burn you. After this, your body will be decorated. (7)
O Indra! You take away the money of the afflicts and kill them. You're great. No one can compete with you and stand in front of you. (2)
 O Indra! You can also demolish the strongest fort. You can also enter the enigmatic cave. Flashy deserts like agni bring the stalled rays to light. 
Hey Ritvijo! Purify the power-giving Mon with the dashapavittra. Som vega is the means of rasapan of the gods and the happiness of Mitravrun. 
O agni! These samidhas of yours are going to destroy vampires. O Jataved! Be happy by getting these facilities. (14)
 The host intelligently refines the mighty Somersa. Som plays in the forest. By singing prayers wisely in the same tone 
How did the man cover the land and by what effect did it ascend to heaven? Under what influence does this man climb mountains and perform deeds? (18)
Even wise people act according to their natures, for all living beings are propelled by their natural tendencies. What will one gain by repression?
Gandharvas are air forms. They are the ones who hold the land. This land is ubiquitous. Those Gandharvas are quick transiting energy. They are requested to protect Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Swaha for them. Water is their nymphs. Please protect us. Swaha for them. (41)
O Ashwinikumaro! Listen to these praises and cries of mine to drink sweet somras. 
O proud god of dreams! We know your birth. You varunani etc. are the son of dev wives and the instrument of Yama, so you are eternal and death. O dream! That's how we know you. Protect us from the sorrow caused by nightmares. (2)
Indra had cut off the head of the trembling vritra with a hundred-edged thunderbolt. 
O mortal human beings! The sun form Indra gives the form of food to the ignorant and the substance hidden in the darkness. The sun form Indra has risen from its rays. See these. (11)
Mental illnesses should go away from the suffering man of this house and constant memory related to mental illnesses should also be removed from it. Condemnation and violence by others also stayed away from it. Agni Dev should destroy demons and demons and Somdev should remove the evil desires of others from it. (2)
O bride! Do not harm your husband and brother-in-law, who does not harm your husband and brother-in-law, who benefits animals, Prajavati, Shobhan Kanti and gives happiness, do not hurt her husband and brother-in-law. Worship the agni. (18)
At the time when Vajradhari Indra receives the Somras kept nearby, the cows give sweet milk to Indra which can be added to the Somras. 
Those agnis, who carry the divine, Brahma, everyone and come from heaven, are sitting in the homes of human beings, who increase heaven and earth and the all-love agni that he sacrifices. 
I am also in those three legs in which all the world's eyebrows were absorbed. I know the world above the earth from this one mind organ. There is a world based on heaven. I know him by this one mind organ. (50)
My devotees, though performing all kinds of actions, take full refuge in me. By my grace, they attain the eternal and imperishable abode.
O leader as Ashchinikumaro! May savita, who has a compassionate nature, a guardian, a spectator of yajnakarma and who dries up the water with her heat, please the gods with our heart. 
This stotao! Please Indra, the abode of wealth and strengthen Indra, called by hosts, praised by the ritvijs. Those Indras who do the same benefit to all as suryakirans, worship the same highly enlightened and meritorious Indra for the enjoyment of it. 
O agni! The yajna for which you have been invited here, you completed it well. Therefore, now you, who are knowledgeable, accept this sacrifice while departing towards your place. (20)
The cows in that dark cave were hidden with the help of one and two gates above. Jupiter, wishing to carry light in the darkness, opened the three gates and drove the cows out. 
O Lord of wealth Ashwinikumaro! For your honor, this sin-destructive hymn has been created along with the havya. It's true! Please me from the sage Agastya, come to the yagnasthala for the benefit of my son and for your own benefit. 
O Indra! This somras is going to increase the strength of your body. There is force in your arms to control all others. O Indra! This sommerus is squeezed and placed in the pot for your drinking. Drink it until the Brahmins are satisfied. (6)
May I get this foliage for my welfare for a long time. By wearing this gem, I become capable, more powerful and better in destroying the enemy by the grace of Aryama. (5)
Trasadsyu, who lives on the banks of the Sarita at Shobhan Niwas, who is a black bull-raiser, is revered, capable of donating money and the lord of two hundred and ten cows, has given me money and clothes. 
There is a spoon facing downwards and the root i.e. the catching part is facing upwards. There is a glorious name hidden in it. There are seven sages sitting together. They should be the protectors of many forms. (9)
He eats among the devas when called. He is called in the world form among the gods. (10)
O woman! Just as a bull produces calves in cows with its unfailing semen, so you get sons born of unfailing semen. You are pregnant and have growth with your sons. (4)
Kooth originated in the northern part of the Himalayan mountains and has been brought in the east direction by humans. There his best names were divided. (8)
Oh, Usho! You have the money to give to your servant at this time and you have the money to give to the brave devotees at this time. You have the money to give the wise hymn at this time. For those who know the uwath mantra like me, give you the same wealth as before. 
The younger brother, who married before the elder brother, is tied, sick and disturbed in each part by the sinful forms of loops; Let them leave the loop. Because all gods, including Indra, are redeemers; O God! Redeem this fetal hanta from the sins it has received from marrying before the elder brother. (3)
 O Indra! You great and tiruschi rishis are engaged in praying. Please listen to their prayers. You make us the best semen and rich. 
O Adhwaryu! Purify the mouth of the ripe rice that sustains the ritvij. O scholar, Adhwaryu! Make a gada to add ghee to the oven. After this, smooth all the parts of the part of the batloi with ghee. Through this odan, I will make the way to the desired heaven of the ancestors. (31)
 Our arrows have been inspired by Vedamantras and eulogies. When we leave those arrows, no matter how far the enemy is, they should fall on it. None of those enemies survived. 
O Rudra Dev! You are the one who degrades sinners. You are the master of food power. You are blue and red. You are not going to hurt the people. You don't let animals get frightened. Don't let us suffer from the slightest disease. (47)
These are all-celebrated by all the vidhata Som Raja. We have praised them too. The mon whose rays are jagadbandhanakas, they touch the space every day. Just as horses vibrate the wheel of the chariot, so do the sage And The Sun, the sage, the som, and the agni tremble. 
We are calling both of them cruel in shanrunashan to this somarsapoorna yajna. They should come to Indra and Agni in this yajna. 
Prajapati drank the acceptable and non-acceptable form from the Vedas. The season leads to the realization of truth. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk, nectar and sweet substances. (78)
Just as the blacksmith wields the blower, so brahmaspati produced the gods. In the time before the gods, the truth arose from the asat. 
O agni! You are the follower of the fast. May that brat-rearing body of yours become one with us. O fasting agni! Please follow the host of the Brahmins. Let us also be bratpati with you (like you). Som is dikshapati. Som is the sustainer of initiation. Let us unite with them. You are the master of tenacity. We are going to meditate. (By your grace) let us unite with you. (6)
 O Indra! The beautiful horses with your hair go into the vehicle as soon as they hear the mantra. May your horses bother to bring you to the yagna. Please come to us in the yajna and listen to our prayers well. 
Oh my god! Your fame is good and your father was also good. You destroy all kinds of rajayaksma diseases and drive leprosy away from us. (9)
The pushas that give wealth, are all consumable and the ones who nourish all through money should come with the means of protection. May the wide path be pleasant for us when The Pusha comes. 
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be nine and ninety, ninety-nine, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (9)
O nascent and work-full agni! The smoke that rises without smoke from you, the smoke that goes into the sky, revealing them. O agni! You go to the gods as messengers. 
O Brahmanaspati! You get up. We want to take divinity and come to you. O Desertion! You are a good donor. Please come close to us. O Indra Dev! Please also come with them soon and live with us. (56)
O great giver, the chief giver, covered by many kinds of havans, brought from many afarious gates, the agni of the most illuminated and ornate by the chief priests! Be lit in the houses of Sumitra and his family who wish for the gods. 
We call the fierce and especially the enemy Indra and agni. May they make us happy in this struggle. 
Who can come to the host who desires the gods and breaks the Kush for the sake of yajna, besides Brahmanaspati? The havandatas have left the house with various properties with the host ritwijs and left for the yagna sthal. 
Hey, Lord! You sit on a chariot with Indra and go to the yagna instead of squeezing the mon and accept the praises of the hosts. O sons of Sudhanva and the bright rich. It is not possible to know the extent of your good deeds, nor of your power. 
 Somers has been well prepared by mixing water, cow's milk and ghee. It is an enemy killer. This best Someras reached the gods. 
Wearing a lamp and looking at everyone, the squeezed Monma makes everyone glow and goes to Dashapavitra with his power. 
It is Jupiter who gives place to the one who praises in the yagna, who overcomes the covering darkness, conquers the enemies in wars and defeats the unfriendly. They burn the cities of demons again and again. 
While listening to us in front of us, I pray to a god named Barley in this land. You should be as high as the sky on the earth and grow without decay like the ocean. (2)
O father! Salutations to the welfare deed of yours. O father! Salutations to the happy deeds of yours. (84)
O ghost! The part of you that agni has not consumed by throwing away. I put it in the agni again and increase you. Be happy by going to heaven with your full limbs. (64)
The gambler goes into the gambling house, illuminated by the body and saying, "Who has come to the rich man?" I'll win him. Sometimes dice fulfill the desire of the gambler and sometimes his opponents fulfill his desire by holding the gambler's friendly deeds. 
Those whose intellect is unattached everywhere, who have mastered the mind, and are free from desires by the practice of renunciation, attain the highest perfection of freedom from action.
O agni with beautiful flames and godly agni! Sit with all the gods on the nest-like and disgusting altar with blankets, and take the yajna to the devas for the welfare of the sacrificial host. 
He who is not a devotee, who is not a devotee, who is not a manivan, who is not a hirpapa and who is not a Brahmin; That Brahma putra stota is valid in kalpas. (6)
O rich man Mon! Our voice praises you so that you give us money. We mix your fading juice with cow's milk. 
I can find no means of driving away this anguish that is drying up my senses. Even if I win a prosperous and unrivalled kingdom on the earth, or gain sovereignty like the celestial gods, I will be unable to dispel this grief.
O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! You are rich. Your stota is also rich, the hymn of a rich and famous person like you is also rich. 
Vasishtha, who had the best knowledge, knew both heaven and earth and became the giver of a thousand donators or all. Vasishtha was born of a nymph with the desire to weave the cloth wide through Yama. 
We give a greeting to the fire that is more illuminated at night and which is bright in the day near the Vedas. Those who get a good and soothing house near the Father receive fire food like a son. They protect both the devotee and the ungodly, knowing them and always remain young by eating the havya. 
Just as the heavens and the earth are located in their place by the command of the Creator God, the world between them is also present in its place.  Mountains like Meru, Mandar etc. are also located in the place created by God. O woman! In the same way, I tie you to the shovel of the house. The type of tying is the same as the horseman ties evil horses with a rope. (1)
 O Mon! You are the master of knowledge. You are omnipresent and powerful with your sacred organs. You give strength to the drinker. You do not bless the one who did not heat himself with penance, fasting, etc. You are blessed only after heating or maturing. 
Which is going to stand in front of Indra, who follows the siniwali subjects and is going to be admired and illuminated by thousands of psalms. O wife of Vishnu or Indra! It has been given to you. O Goddess! Please encourage your husband Indra to give us money. (3)
All these gods are a form in that Brahman, who knows a fast. (7)
O agni! When the yajna begins and the host comes near, the hosts pray to you. O great agni! You give all the best money to the sage who gives the havi. 
Let us give us the one who defeats the enemies, the guardian of the gentlemen, the enemy and the most fast-paced son with the help of family members in the battle of truth. 
We, the sons of Vishwamitra, performed the hymn of thunderbolt carrying Indra. Indra make us have divine wealth. 
 Hey friend! O Varuna! These Brahmin hosts worship you for superior intelligence. We want gold from you. We worship you with the wish of welfare. 
O hosts who perform yajnakarma! Go to the refuge of Indra, who never bows down, subdues enemies, is great, wealthy, well-to-do, admired, famous and possessed of man-friendly vanja. 
O Indra! Drink the squeezed mon as desired. In the morning squeezed mon you should drink first. Oh, hero! Be excited for the host. We describe your bravery through mantras. 
Those who are deluded by the operation of the guṇas become attached to the results of their actions. But the wise who understand these truths should not unsettle such ignorant people who know very little.
Foods that are too bitter, too sour, salty, very hot, pungent, dry, and chiliful, are dear to persons in the mode of passion. Such foods produce pain, grief, and disease.
Agni Hom, Shraddha, Vasta Shabd, Vrat, Tapa, Dakshina, Yag, Homadi Karma and Smritis mentioned in the Vedas and the deeds of making stepwells, wells etc. mentioned in the Puranas are located in the remaining form of Brahma. (9)
Indra Dev gives money to the man who gives havan in the yajna to be chosen by many. Indra Somras, who is quick in all works and admired by motivators, gives wealth to the one who squeezes and praises. 
Then Brahma force entered Jupiter and Kshatra force entered Indra. (5)
Being the soul of all gods, this agni is eternal. They are worthy of praise and are going to call the gods in the yagyas. O agni! In this way, you remain new. May you complete your body with ghee etc. and provide good luck for us. (1)
The zoonoyrupi bird entered the cosmological sea. He sees the whole world. I have looked at him with a mature mind. His mother licks him and he licks the mother. 
 O agni! We are your sons. Want to invite you from the mind. You come for us from the best place too. We worship you with speech 
O aschinikumaro! Hosts and wise hymns that run with the pronunciation of praises carry a lot of food. May we give permanent glory and house to the annadharis. 
O Indra! Give us wealth to protect us and that is worthy of our enjoyment, helps in the conquest of our enemies, and causes the defeat of our enemies. 
This man has entered his house of Kravyad Agni and it has become a follower of him. I consider both of them as obstacles and separate this kravyad agni. (43)
These marutrupi subjects of Indra serve their shelter heaven while destroying the enemies and the navel of the yajna is located on the Uttarvedi in such a way that we can get wealth. 
The first born-less devgans should give us more food as a means of worship. We call Jupiter, who is blessed and defeated by the housemates, with holy praises. 
Hey Mon! In the loka in which the recognized and prayable Indradi Dev lives, where the knower of all is the place of the sun and where there is food and fulfillment given with the word 'Swadha', make me immortal and drop your juice down for Indra. 
Oh my friend and Ritwijo! We will make this hymn for the thunderbolt Indra. I will praise Indra, who led wars and defeated enemies for your welfare. 
O karyati Indra! You are the most glorious, rich, the enemy,the enemy,the conqueror, the one with the vast group of maruts, the ones who display Vikram in the battle, the enemy and the enemy. Where is the bravery you showed when the asuras obstructed? 
 O Mon! You be sophisticated for Indra. You give pleasure to Indra. Please remove your sufferings. 
O God of Agni! You protect us from demons who hurt from the lower direction, demons who hurt from the upward direction and demons who hurt from the east direction. May the present present everywhere destroy your sinful demons. O monster! Agni Dev is not old, very angry and radiant. (19)
O agni! Ten fingers have created you the old one. O God! Praise the agni that is well-produced in the midst of the arrows like mother, beloved and churned by God. They live under the control of agni hosts. 
The ignited agni placed on the altar is located in front of all beings. Honor the home executors, purifiers, old, well-meaning, bright and worthy agni gods of yajna. 
O Indra! You come to the place of yajnakarma only knowing your place. We remember you with the sun. 
Intelligent solutions add solutions and separate gambling from ploughs. Patient men speak the hymns of the gods. 
The oz, tej, brahma, vani, senses, lakshmi, dharma, vedas, kshatra shakti, nation, havi, yasha, might, wealth, age, form, name, fame, eyes, ears, milk, juice, food, agni, truth, ishta, purta, praja etc. of that Kshatriya are all taken away. Who kidnaps a Brahmin cow. He reduces his age. (3)
O Sahartu Indra! The senses of Gandharva, Pitar, Deva, Asura and Rakshasa in these five people, we understand as yours. 
Its fourth is Vyana Nakshatra. (4)
I am the only one who does not return the rich after taking a loan. Due to the same powerful debt, I remain in the control of ruler Yama. O Agni, under your influence I have been left out of that debt. I will be exempted from the transcendental loopholes caused by non-repayment of loans. (1)
O Indra! You complete both earth and sky with your brightness like Usha. You are the great and king among the human beings. The Goddess and The Mother of Kalyanmayi have created you. 
May the agni produced by the hearts of the demons etc. who sit around it and become ready to commit violence burn them. (1)
O Goddess! You are established for the prestige of all prana, apana, vyana and udan body (distinction of air). Fire protect you. May you be well-being with cool peaceful means. With divinity, please be as pole like an angira. (19)
I exalt my enemies through strong mental strength and influence of smell. I destroy enemies through the branch of peepal tree affected by mantras. (8)
We see The Sun God coming to Gopath. Surya Dev Is The Protector, The Best Indestructible. The Sun God comes from the path of the gods. That Sun God is the seer of all worlds. (17)
This bull in the form of Indra Dev gives more fruit in the worlds received from virtue like yagna etc. This elixir som purified at the beginning of the yajna fills this bull with juice. Rain is the stream of milk. Forty-nine are windy, all kinds of yajna are its milk and the milk given in the yajna is the act of milking. Thus the exploitation of this indra and the bull in the form of Dharma would have been inexhaustible . (4)
I utter all kinds of money-giving speeches. O Goddess of speech! You come with your radiance to give me the fruit I want. May the air cover my soul from all sides and strengthen my body. (10)
When I am called for yajnadiksha, I touch the shisha of four horses with hair given by the kings of Shatrugaramakta, Rikshputra and Shrutrva in such a way that people touch the hair. 
"My guru Agastya desired the fruits of the judgment and many children through the yagnas, and he obtained the best qualities of both work and restraint and received true blessings from the gods." 
O sun! You are famous, great, great among all gods and destroyers. You are a priest, publisher and repository of light. (40)
Just as the ghee received is separated from Saruva for agni, in the same way, while meditating on agni, one should donate Vasha for Brahmin. (34)
Those who perform the satra yajna are nectar, pure, pure, and radiant through the air and after death, go to the land of Jyotirmaya. Agni does not burn the senses of those who perform the current Brahmaodan session yagna in heaven. They get a group of women to enjoy. (2)
Those who die with predominance of sattva reach the pure abodes (which are free from rajas and tamas) of the learned. Those who die with prevalence of the mode of passion are born among people driven by work, while those dying in the mode of ignorance take birth in the animal kingdom.
The cloud that roars in the sky is Prajapati, it appears only to the people. That is why the person wearing yajnopavit should be ready to know Prajapati. The one who knows this is considered to be the one who is born after Prajapati. (24)
 O Indra! When we find the superior wisdom of you like the Father, we feel as if we have become like the sun. 
The gods have provided death itself as apps to all beings. Even when they eat, animals die. The giver's money does not run out. No one can make a non-donor happy. 
O agni! You come with Indra Dev, Vayu, Mitra Dev and all the gods. Please drink sweet somers with all this. (10)
O Somras prepared with a mixture of Aries hair and water! I mix you with cow's milk-curd etc. to please the gods. 
The water clusters living in the best place, illuminated by the fast every day and the grandson of water i.e. the food to the agni, are constantly flowing around. 
You are the sea, omniscient and unborn. You are a leg earring. You are aware. You belong to Indra. You are the form of speech. You are present in our house. You are sitting on the yajna altar. You are installed at the informed door. You are the marg husband. Please pave our way. May the paths of the gods be welfare for us. (33)
O charioteer agni! You are going to follow the praiseworthy ketu of the gods in the yagna, the knower of all the hymns, the settler of all men in their houses, and the work of the gods. 
O Indra! By which you make us happy, let the fames and praises be yours. 
Just as Ashwini Kumars find Someras dear in the morning, Ashwinikumar should establish tej in me in the same way. (11)
O Yagyapatra Maruto! The pramudit stotas praise you in the yajna by shakti. They vibrate the vast earth, rain water from the clouds and go everywhere in a furious manner. 
Hey Mon! You are as diverse as the wind and the one who goes to the desired place, when you hear the call like ashwarinikumars, and you are the one who gives happiness to all, the giver of wealth, the one who is as diverse as the sun, and the same as the sun. 
When will we praise everyone's beloved electric lightning? Strength and fame are its foundation and it is revered by all. That power extends the rain to the sky that seems finite from all sides. She is going to cover pragyavati and the sky. 
These facing present suns have risen with full brightness to destroy my evil disease. I am not the destroyer of my evil disease. 
O God! Dress this brahmachari and nurture it with our glory. Make it such that old age becomes its death. Thus make the life of this longer. Brihaspati Dev gave this cloth to the King of Brahmins, Soma, to wear. (2)
O you who are visible, happy with the sacrificial deeds, those with intoxicating bodies, adorned and the guardian of the water, Ashvinikumaro! Come quickly to the sacrificial site by the early horses. 
    O Mon! Many people want you. You are the one with the best yajna and the one who does the best work. Please give us money, strength and children. 
 O Usha! You are light. When you rise, birds fly far and wide in space. Animals also roam. Humans also become dynamic. 
 O agni! You are bright and meritorious. With old hymns, the hosts light you and expand you. 
This Som Yag named Tritiya Sawan belongs to the Ribhus who composed Chamas with their craft deeds. The son of Angiras, he has attained divinity due to making Sudhanva Ratha, Chamas etc. They should make us the right to fulfill the yajna by meditating on the best fruits. (3)
The moving mon sheds his intoxicating juices around. Manishi, the drug addict and the knower of all, Som drops the juice on the high part of dashapavitra on Dronkalash. 
O Lord of horses named Hari and Indra with our praises! You give enough money to the paying host. O Indra! When will you give us the money? Today we are equipped with your worthy protection. 
Even if the Sun God is of one stage, he goes ahead of those with many stages. Many animals with many stages live in the shelter of this one-step sun. (27)
O Parth, how can one who knows the soul to be imperishable, eternal, unborn, and immutable kill anyone or cause anyone to kill?
These friends, knowing the creatures of the earth and space all the time, inspire ignorant people in yajnakarma. Their power also leads to the surface in the depths of the river. These lead us beyond elaborate yajnakarma. 
Salutations to the god with a more powerful and muddy color who wins in gambling. He is going to win as desired from the dice in gambling. By chanting the mantra, I destroy kali i.e. the five points that give defeat. May the God of gambling pleased with namaskar make us happy with this type of jai symptom fruit. (1)
These stones, which call Indra through Soma, who are intoxicated and squeezed, do great words. These stones get intoxicating somers from their mouths. These stones remain patient even after being playful in the work of squeezing and dance with their fingers while humming the earth with their words. 
O leader, lord of unlimited wealth, without death, water-raining, famous for the truth, meritorious and young Maruto! You are the subject of many praises and the one who is going to rain more. 
O Indra! I ask you for good food and strength. The money that you took away from those who did not perform yajna karma and gave peace to Bhrigu Rishi and the money with which you followed Prasknava, the son of Kanva, we ask you for the same wealth. (3)
 O sun! You are going to sanctify and illuminate everyone. We worship the light with which you illuminate all. 
 O Mon! You are strong, strong and fast. The host has squeezed you out of the desire to get cows, horses and sons. 
This whole universe is the glory of the supreme being. Supreme being is bigger than universe. All beings are quarter fraction of supreme being. Three of these eternal fractions reside in the divine realm. 
O Indra! The only arrow you take the help of in battle has a front face and a thousand wings behind it. 
 O Indra! The host removes somerasa by crushing with stones with both his hands. May you enjoy drinking that somersa. You drink it. You are the master of ashchas. You give us the same strength as ashach. 
O Maruto of equal anger! Just as you come to hear Our praises, so come to our good food. You give the cow a strong organ like a horse and the host's yajna. 
O agni! We should not live in a house of zero from the son, nor should we live in the house of others. O well-wisher of the house, Agni Dev! We should serve you with sons and heroes and live in people's homes. 
O sinless Ashvinikumaro who was born as a suryachandra! Because of the beauty and magnificence of your body, I am praising you again and again. One of you holds the world as the sacrificial promoter by becoming the moon and the other as the sun as the son of the sky follows the world with shobhan rashmis. 
O aschinikumaro! Horses well attached to the chariot carry you to come to the yagna through the satyarupi chariot. Just as a son sees his parents, so the yajnas go before you. Take the assy wisdom far away from us. We prepare the havya for you. You come before us. 
O agni! You are the idol of heaven, the navel of earth, the essence of medicines and the life (age) of the world. You are happy and pervading the whole path. You are a guide. O agni! Salutations to you. (54)
 O Indra! Thieves and robbers who steal cows, you subjugate those cows. You make us Goan from those cows. 
We invoke Agni, Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Bhaga, Usha, Brihaspati, Soma and Rudra in the morning to get power and wisdom. (1)
Vasishthagotriya sages likewise worship the desireful and Vajrabahu Indra through praises. When they hear the praise, give us wealth with heroes and cows. O Indra! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O old friend and Varuna! I come near you and pray for my protection. I praise you who have good knowledge for getting the best horses and various food. 
I speak very innovative and beautiful praises for this agni that wishes for the ancient and the praises. Fire listen to them. Just as a woman who wishes for a husband and has adorned robes joins her body with the husband's heart, so I touch the middle part of the agni. 
O agni! You are going to benefit the world. You come. You protect us. You listen to our praises. You protect us. (72)
He stood for a year, and the gods asked him, "O Vratya! Why are you doing this penance?" (1)
O agni! Just as the charioter adds horses to the chariot, so you also add your horses to the chariot, skilled in calling the gods. You sit down as the chief. 
O Indra! You are very famous about donating. O vajradhari! You show respect to us by giving us rich food. 
Let the famous Savita Dev, bhaga, the grandson of water and the donating agni protect us. May the happy skin with the gods and goddesses, the heavens happy with the gods and the happy earth with the seas protect us. 
Som Devta should protect me in the south direction along with the gods named Rudra. They should protect me in the act of stepping and in the place of stepping. Let them protect me in the city where I go. They should serve my interest. I surrender to Som. May this be received by Havi Som. (3)
I make your king enter the bed-ridden pur with his wife and people to protect the land for which they have appeared, including brahma, i.e., the Vedas, brahmacharis, and may that whole give you happiness and protection. (8)
Prajapati, who saved well-known sons from disaster, knows Dyulok and the earth. That Prajapati inspires the people of the world to do their own deeds. He pervades the heavens and the earth with His glory. That Prajapati has become this visible world. (2)
We call upon the garudas, who are powerful, empowered by the gods to bring soma, the conquerors of the chariots of enemies in the battle, the chariots of the enemies in the battle, the one with the unfavourable chariots and the ones who inspired the armies to fight. 
O agni! You are inclusive. You have been illuminated well by samidha. You are a stranger. May the three worlds and the three states, agni and gayatri verses give strength and life to your body. (12)
We call Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni, Marudgana and Aditi for protection. Let the God of Adornment, who gives the abode, protect us from sins and follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot away from the high and low path. 
The sun illuminates everyone, knows everything and is able to see all the world. They do the upward flag sister. (31)
I accept the great, the wide, the inspiring and the serene hiranya, held on top of thousands of cows. 
O earth! By your grace, we are fearless. May the moon and the sun make us fearless. May the present space between Dyawa and Earth be abhaya for us. The havi given by us to the Saptrishis should give us protection. (1)
O Pawman Mon! Worship the vegetable god, sometimes green and sometimes golden in colour, bright and with a thousand branches, with a sweet stream. 
O agni! The unborn part of this ghost, that is, the soul, should be afflicted with your tenacity. May your glowing flame heat the soul of this ghost. O jataved agni! Take the soul of this ghost to the world of those who do good deeds through your flame-like welfare body. (8)
Following this path and having achieved enlightenment from a Guru, O Arjun, you will no longer fall into delusion. In the light of that knowledge, you will see that all living beings are but parts of the Supreme, and are within me.
Walking on a path full of black darkness, Savita Dev rides on her gold chariot and goes looking at the people. Savita Dev goes to invest (engage) human beings. (43)
All the things that have killed and won the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. I surround his radiance, strength, soul and age. He could not get rid of the traps of misery. (5)
O agni! You are fast. Please proceed from all of you. Please grow up making a loud noise. The sustenance agni moved forward, did not stop anywhere. May the sea hold strong and powerful agni. O agni! You come to accept the havi. (46)
The food of a friend who follows human beings by the rain is enjoyable by all and their wealth is very rich. 
O Maruto! May your arrival in our yajna be amazing. O maruto of adornment and good light! May your good come protect us. 
O Indra! You make us goose with a happy heart. O you have horses called Hari! You mix us with the grace of the bright sons, the gods worthy of welfare, adequate food and yajna. 
Behaving like a bull, Indra received soma-like food from Prajapati. He drank somers squeezed into three som yagas. After this, Indra took his enemy vajra in his hand and killed the first born vritra among the asuras.
Indra's ears are going to listen to the supplication. We ask them for money. They don't listen to them and fail. No one should stop Indra who gives thousands and hundreds of donations only after the request
 O agni! You are the priest of yagyas. You are going to benefit everyone. It is the gods who have established you among the human beings. 
O God of agni called by Ghrit! You make this host get the best position. After attaining the best position, you should equip this host with physical radiance and enrich it with son, grandson etc. (1)
O Ashchinikumaro who gives houses for the sake of food! Come to this yagna to fulfill our wish. Go to clean water like gooses, so you come to our somras. 
O Indra! Give us the rich dakshina that fulfills the wish of the saint with your wealth. You are worthy of service, so don't give that dakshina to anyone other than us. We will take the sons, grandsons, etc., along with us and praise you more in this yajna. 
Just as charioteer warriors reveal warriors hitting horses with a whip, so do they reveal the rainy clouds. When the rainy seasons the sky, its roar is generated from as far away as a lion. 
O God of God! You get the welfare woman in whom the seed is sown. Whoever dedicates his body to us, we should get sense happiness with him. (38)
Our father Vishwakarma, who called for agni, put the whole world in the agni for havan and sat in it himself. They first became a cover of agni and later entered it, wishing for wealth through praises. 
O agni! This sage is your hymn. O son of strength, agni! My second is not intimate like you. Your three-cornered abode is beautiful. We are sad to come near you and be saddened by your flame, so remove it. 
O God! You are rich and lucky. By your grace, we hosts should also become rich and lucky. The host invokes God. Please come to our place and make our yajna and all the desired works successful. (38)
 O Mon! You come to our yagna early. You quickly get installed in the urn. Hosts filter you. Filter and get havi food in the form of havi. Like purifying powerful horses, hosts purify you. Just as the horse is taken by holding the reins, the hosts take you to the yajna place with the fingers. 
Meritorious people see the excellent place of the widespread Vishnu Dev. Their location in the sky is as wide as the solar system. (6)
O Pawman Mon! You give us a house with many bright and beautiful buildings. 
The seven moving horses also bring the head of the head, i.e., the lord of the supreme standing and movable, and the sun in the chariot closer to the world for the welfare of the world. 
This trick is the father of many arrows. Many arrows are its sons. When an arrow is removed, it contains the word trischa. The tarkas is tied on the warrior's back, knowing wars gives rise to arrows and conquers all armies. 
Three types of somras should be made in the yajnashala for Indra Dev, who drinks the squeezed somras. 
This is Shachipati Indra! People call you the lord of wealth, the giver of desired fruits to the hymns and the bright ones. 
O agni! You are installed on the world's moon. Your heart is dependent on the sea. You are in the water. You pierce the sea and drain the water. You rain for us from heaven and clouds. You rain for us from space and earth. (55)
O great friend and great friend, Varuna! Our adhwaryu and we, who have equal love, nourish you by worshiping you and with our praises through the host havan. 
O boy! You are a pioneer, a sacrifice-loving and a benefactor. You plough your welfare horses in chariots. Please come to this yajna with your mind. (31)
O thunderbolt Indra! You come before us with charming, unsimpressed and uninvaded defense tools by others. 
O God of Agni who drinks Someras! You come near the children of demons and eliminate them and protect our children. Take out both the right and left eyes of our enemies who are afraid of you and pray to you. (3)
He who eats before the guest destroys the shri and harmony of his houses. (6)
Even those who are considered the most immoral of all sinners can cross over this ocean of material existence by seating themselves in the boat of divine knowledge.
The pure rays of the sun, who do great deeds, those who do good deeds and are capable and witness, shine in the sky and lift the sun up. (1)
O Mon with stones! Your velocity rises, piercing the demons. The revolutionaries that hinder us, you destroy them. 
O sun in heaven! Your brother, I do your duty and praise you while wishing for cows. Heaven is our place of origin and the sun. I'm just a few generations behind the sun. 
Half the verses give a sense of the ukthas. The positions give a sense of nivid. Pranavas give a sense of the form of weapons. The form of som is obtained from milk. (25)
O Indra! Give the horses, cows and indestructible wealth that you have, to the host who squeezes the somras and gives dakshina, and do not give it to the non-donating pany. 
Where Indra Dev and Vayu move together, let us attain that pure and enlightened world. (26)
Oh, God! Hosts serve you quickly to get children and animals. Let the nirti make my body strong with the best food in this yajna and remove my old age. 
 O Indra! Please provide favorite substances like cows, horses etc. to your son hosts. 
O agni! You always give the psalms a land that they can get to get a cow by doing many yajnakarmas. Give us a son who expands our seed and gives birth to a child. May you have a good sense of wisdom towards us. 
O wishing and charioteer som! You fall quickly and from all sides in our yagna, purifying in the vessels called Chamu, and fall quickly and from all sides. Tasteful, sweet, sacrificial, and all the inspirations are as true as the goddess Som. 
The third of this is Apan Amavasya. (3)
 O Indra! Human beings dedicate somers to you for the increase of their wealth. But worship you with such excellent prayers. You are a prajapalak. Please come to the hosts who give you. 
May I get Som Mani, who gives me the power to defeat others. I may wear that beloved gem given by Indra and allowed by Varuna to attain a long life of a hundred years, (4)
O Aghnya! You fill the bones of this kidnapper with burning and marrow decay. (9)
O aschinikumaro! Drink the sweet and dripping somras in the characters. Hey leaders! Sit on the kushas of yajna. You are happy in the yajnashala of the host and drink somras with purodash etc. 
O best regulator and inspector! I send the fruit of the bad dream to the son of such a tribe and such a woman. (8)
 O agni! You are the creator, the giver of joy, the wonderful, the glorious and the light of the gods. Please listen to our praises. 
O host! We perform yajna to the gods. O Aditya Dev! You are good-minded. You are pleasant. You give us permission. Please adapt the intelligence of your enemies towards us. (68)
After coming out of the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair, Som drips down and meets his friend Indra in this yagna. 
O God of God! Let us put the hymn in your brat. Let us never perish. We praise you in the yajna and wish you. (41)
I point Mahadev's bow to kill the haters and violent people of Brahmins, that is, I pull his string. I am the one who fights for the stomat and I am the one who enters the world and the earth. (5)
O euplate! By your grace, we should get those trees from which we can make pillars of yajna. We should not find trees which are not useful for yajna (or yajnastambh). We have found you from close by in the trees far and near. You are a forest keeper and a lighthouse. We serve you. So that we can use you in this yagna performed for the gods. We tease you with ghee. We request the drug to protect you. Protect you. No one should do violence to this yagyastambh. (42)
O Indra! You increase the host who performs the sacrament of Someras. The reason for that increase is actually water full Som. (3)
Varuna, who fasted and did good deeds, had come and sat down to reign over the divine people. 
Knowledge, action, and the doer are declared to be of three kinds in the Sānkhya philosophy, distinguished according to the three modes of material nature. Listen, and I will explain their distinctions to you.
Hey leaders! The sage Dadhyanga, the son of Atharva, had spoken sweet words by holding the neck of the horse by your power. It reveals your furious deeds in the same way that the roar of the cloud tells the water within the cloud. 
O adhwaryujano! You irrigate the green somras kept in the wooden pot. Make this container from stone tanks. Hold this vessel with ten fingers wrapped and add the bull to both the axles of the chariot 
 O agni! You are comprehensive. We want to please you for your devotee wealth. The man who gives you the glory receives the heroic Son who nurtures thousands of men who praise him. 
 O Mon! You are the madadya, the forceful, the foundation of yajna, illuminated, energized and conquering enemies. You can't be won. 
O Indra and Agni! From this hymn, this fine praise is produced in the same way as it rains from the cloud. 
O air! Until the nights remove the curtain from Usha's mouth, it is located below and the stota sits near the earthly agni yajna. 
Apart from the one who is the giver of self-power and the giver of strength, the one whom the whole world praises, the one whose umbrella is as happy as nectar, without whom there is suffering like death, for which other god should we law. (13)
You are the base of water and the vagina of agni. You hike the sea. You are heavenly like the great lotus. Please be as detailed as the results of the earth. (29)
The happy and cheerful shashyasi told me the way to her. The red horses he gave me took me to the most successful and meritorious purumidh. 
I gave more money to my stota. I performed the rituals of my growing yagnas. I give money to my host and defeat all those who do not perform yajna in battle. 
Those who admire the yajnakarma of agni stota are going to take the jata veda and the havan inserted in the yajna to heaven. 
O Pawman Mon! Humans take you wherever they want. You stay there and reach Indra for the purpose of drinking. 
 O Indra! You are powerful and light-witted. You are powerful, revered and respectful of enemies. We have prepared this somers for your satisfaction. You come. Accept this someras. 
 O Mon! You are awakening, dear and holy. You fall down by filtering in a sieve made of sheep's hair. You are the best in the tradition of The Angiras Sages. You are an intellectual. You sanctify this yajna of ours. 
Indra said, "The power of me alone spread all over the place. Whatever I want from my heart, I can do the same thing. O Maruto! I'm fierce and learned. I have the right to the properties I know." 
Indra has established the sun in heaven so that everyone can see him and Indra has penetrated the cloud through his sun-like rays. (9)
O self- We know your origin. You are the son of parabhuti i.e. defeat and the instrument of Yamraj. You are the instrument and death of Yamraj. We know your nature very well. You save us from evil self-respect. (7)
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are located in the sky and the brightness of the wind. I display might in the sky and remove it from the sky. Let those who hate us or those we hate be destroyed. Give up their lives. (29)
 O Indra! You are going to kill a monster called Vritra. Many people prepare somers for you. You are always going to know our desires. You are going to destroy the saints in war. You are powerful. Please listen to our praise. 
O wandering earth! The Psalms praise you with the dynamic hymns. Oh white- colored! You throw away a cloud that thunders like a horse. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! When you ate the meat of three hundred buffaloes, drank three vessels full of somras and killed Vritra, all the gods called Indra, who was completely satisfied with Sompan, in the same way that the master calls his servant. 
Hey, sing! Be a child, break beautiful straws for the sake of food and drink clean water from a happy drinkable pond, etc. Don't let the thief be your boss. Don't let violent animals attack you. God's weapon may be far from you. 
O Cupid! You are greater than all the beetles, jatus, karas, trees and snakes are. You're all busy. I salute you. (22)
The fingers that perform the yajnakarma serve the agni called Neshta like the cows. They also serve three forms of agni, garhapya, etc. 
Those brave men who attack the enemies in wars, who sacrifice the body in the battlefield and who complete the sacrifices of food, dakshina etc., you get all the fruits that they get. (17)
O air! Let you bring the fast-moving and powerful horse to the yagna for the first sompan. You do the same sompan as before. Our praise, which is compatible with your mind and true, describes your qualities, may it please you forever. Come quickly from the chariot to accept the substance given in the yajna and give us the desired fruit. In your chariot there are horses called Niyut. 
O Shur Indra! In wars, you give strength to those who take refuge in you and show the best way, who take refuge in you and go to war. The deserters who are pleased to serve you try in war. 
A powerful and red-colored bird is coming which is great, brave, ancient and nestless. What he wants to do is definitely true and never fails. He conquers the identifiable property and gives it to the psalmists. 
O agni! You were made by the gods in ancient times as a general of man-like nahaush and a general with a human body. At the time when you were born as the son of my father, the sage Angira, the devas made Ila the sermon of Manu. 
O glorious god! May your famous light give us life and shelter. May the gods receive praise along with your divine food, so that we can get food, strength and long life. 
O bright hundred! Praise the ancient agni and the controller of this more-giving, strange-glowing somasadhya yajna for the fulfillment of the yajna. 
O cloud form Indra! The ushshis have attained perfection from you, the water has come out of you and the earth holds the wealth worthy of your enjoyment. Let us be your friends partners in wealth, the main force of the gods is the same. 
O Indra, who performs a hundred sacrifices! Look forward to protecting us in this battle. We and you will talk together about other tasks. 
This shattwar gem, which is worn, gives birth to a hundred brave sons and removes a hundred diseases named Tuberculosis. It destroys all the bad-named demons and makes them so that they can not create nuisance again. (4)
Nutritive Sun God Spread your right hand to give money even from a far away country. Our destroyed money came back to us. Let us recover from our lost wealth. (4)
King Varuna, in the middle of the waters, walks knowing the truth and untruth of human beings, the waters with the golden color that have worn agni as a womb, those waters should be the destroyers and pleasurable of disease for us. (2)
O Agni! Your food is appreciated. O brightness! Your flame is very splendour. O who is of great brilliance and skillful Agni! You give praiseworthy food and strength to the host of yajna. 
Kubera, the son of Vishrava Rishi, was his vatsa and the raw vessel of clay was his vessel. (10)
The father of the whole world, like the womb of water, the supreme protector of human beings, the great, the invaders of enemies, the protectors of his vast armies in the struggle, the most beautiful and the agni shining with its light, has created water for the host. 
O servants! Come and praise Indra. Indra is the master of wealth and the radiant. Don't let Indra hinder us by money. 
 O Mon! You are strong, bright and willing. You are going to hold these force-enhancing properties. 
Just as the people who live on earth and have a strong king approach their master, suffering from the other, so the happy group of Maruts comes to us. O Maruto! May your group be as skilled as agni and as wicked as a cow with fierce bulls. 
O filtration gem! Savita Dev has made you prosperous and Som Dev has made you prosperous. O gem! All beings have increased you. The person who holds you is endowed with all means. (3)
The three divine eyelashes namely Ida, Saraswati and Bharati hold food for the painless apanpata and increase the soma produced in the water. They drink the nectar som of the first water produced. 
The medium-lying voice of the deities that the gods produce, which is spoken by all the animals. The pleasing voice, showering food and juice, was praised by us and came to us like a cow. 
O agni of the unadorned agni! Let us, the psalms, be rich and protected by your grace and get food from your inspiration. O agni that expands the truth and destroys sin! Destroy our distant and near enemies and complete all the work respectively. 
The wife of the sun, the owner of the food, and Usha, who is with strange wealth, is the possessor of all the wealth. Praised by the sages, the long-term giver to old age and the rich usha lights up listening to the praises of the host. 
"The woman goes there in the time of yajna or war and the veermata indrapati of truth and gets respect for all. Indra is the best." 
O agni! Burn all enemies with the same radiances with which you burned the demons who make terrible words, and destroy the heat and wipe out the disease. 
O Indra, who gives the abode! When will our psalm stop the one who desires you? The way the drains of the field are watery. In the same way more somras have been squeezed to get water. 
O the deserts with equal anger and radiant weapons! Just as the swans descend upon their abode, so come to find happiness through the sweet somarahs from the path of disruption with the milch cows and the thundering clouds. 
O Indra! Be pleased with our praises and end the enemy's treasures while protecting our enemy army. Pleased with these praises, finish all the people who perform the yajna for the welfare of the host or who destroy the deeds. 
O Stotao! You should worship Indra in the best way. Worship Indra to destroy your enemies. (5)
O agni that defeats enemies! Give me vast pleasures and desirable wealth. 
O God! Separate your weapons by making wounds with your weapons on the skin of those who are going to do our violence. Just as people accept gold coins or ornaments, the creator of the work should accept it. (3)
O Indra and Varuna! Make the yajna in our homes adorned and make the praises of our hymns good. May the money inspired by you come to us. You increase us by the means of invigorating defenses. 
For Ardhamas, there is a law of anyabi (cuckoo), rishyamrig and peacock for water, suparna for Gandharva, crab for water, turtle for months. Rohit, Krindunic b Golattika are the law for apsaras. Black buck has been lawed for death. (37)
O bright Indra! The stotas who serve you when they go to Somers Nikud with the desire to get various wealth and a place of residence, they become entitled to get happiness through the way of mind at that time. The intoxication of the uninvited Somras gets them up. 
 O agni! You are eternal, powerful and unbreakable. You ignite well. Please ignite with flames. We offer you barley mixed havi. 
O Indra! The bull who had taken the cart of The Wife of the Ushiner, inspire him. O brother! May heaven and the vast earth remove your evils and do not do anything wrong in any way. 
O leader Aschinikumaro! Son of man, listen to the call of my world and understand. Varun, friends and Aryama should listen to my call together. 
Prajapati, give birth to the children of both of you. Aryamadev, unite you both day and night. O bride! You enter this house separately from the evils and become the one who gives happiness to two-legged humans and four-legged animals. (40)
Dyava Prithvi, Saraswati Devi, Indra and Agni are imbued in me. Let them destroy the worms. (1)
O agni of good deeds! You give the jewel to the host, because you are the one to give the gemstone. Make all the ritvijas skilled in our yajna and increase the growing phenomenon. 
 O Indra! You drank somers expelled from Kadru. You killed an enemy with thousands of arms. Your bravery was published at the same time. 
Day and night are the protectors of it. Shvesochhavas are the horses of his chariot in order. Prana is his charioteer. Air is the whip of that charioteer. Kirti and Yash are going to walk ahead of him. Fame and fame are close to him who knows this, he gets fame and fame. (20)
Medicines are also harmful and destroy diseases. Medicines are also going to treat diseases like warts. Medicines are also going to destroy hundreds of diseases like tuberculosis and ripe boils. (97)
O special light-agni! Be an evil deterrent like a home to the host who praises you. O rich agni! You become a form of happiness for hosts with wealth. O agni! Protect your hymns from sin. O agni with wisdom, rich in wealth! Arrive early this morning. 
Marudganas are truth, truth, shruva, dharaka, dharta and vidharta. May those gods be pleased to specially hold our yajna. (82)
O undefeated agni! You make an elaborate city made of iron to protect our humans at this time. 
Hey friend and Varun! Just as a king named Raathvya pleased you with his service in the yajna like an ordinary human form as the host, and his sings had become very milky, so may my cows who give you the greetings satisfy me by becoming milky. 
It is revered for everyone on the day. Salutations to this type of vratya. (5)
Great friends and Varun! What you protect the host who gives the havi is great. Hey Aditya! Sin cannot touch the host you protect from the enemy's hand. Your defenses are hassle-free and benign. 
Do not let your organs digested by agni, (pain) fall while running around, do not let them lie on the ground. They may not be found in straws. They should also become the food of the gods. (34)
This is the hymn! In every way, indra, the lord of the world and with unimpeded anger, is praised to defeat the enemies. You inspire the brothers to praise Indra. 
Consume the omnipresent Dyava-Prithivi, Aryama Dev, Aditi, Vidhata, Admirable Bhaga, Wide Space and Vishvedev. 
O Indra! Those who wish to go to the path of Devayan etc. according to their knowledge and karma and who do painful devhuti etc. for the common man, they are not able to board the yagya boat due to lack of your grace. For this reason, they stay in the land of death while doing simple deeds. (6)
Young, divine, great, sitting on the kushas, praised by many, the lord of property and the character of the yagna, nisha-din kamdhenu take shelter for the sake of the welfare of the cow. 
O adhwaryujano! Bring the vessel to fill the somras for Indra, who hit the Uran asura, who performed ninety-nine arms, and ended the arbud by facing downwards. 
Leaders, bright, powerful, rainy-like and unruly deserters grace the great glory to get the food. 
O glorious agni! You are born on the north altar like the navel of the earth, holding your gold-like radiances. Worship the gods by adorning you and being located in the east direction. 
O agni! Give kshatriyas your age and your splendor to them. Try to do constructive work by staying with a friend Dev. Please stay among the decorators. You are king. You come. Please light up the yajna. (5)
The sun is our father, the father of the clouds and the protector of all through the water of rain. They should drop down rainwater. After this, water streams flowed, saying gadgad. O Varuna! You also bring down the earth from the water clouds that irrigate it. Frogs with white arms should be awakened on a grassless land and say words. (12)
Oh, Usha! Remove the suffering of nightmares when I get food like honey, kheer, etc. in the dream by the disaster. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
The water-drivers and King Som go to the forefront, producing the people in the vast and water-holding space. The desireful, dull and bright mon grows greatly on the high dasapavittra made of sheep's hair. 
The bright, rainy and greenish-coloured somas were squeezed. The king's like-sighted mons make the word by aiming at the water. Som goes purely towards dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. Like the hawk leads to its nest. Mon walks towards his watery place. 
O agni! You are worthy of worship. When there is the company of sources and goddesses among the gods, then be the jewel giver to those who praise and give them a lot of money. (26)
The herbs that are flowering, sprout producing, fruitless and without fruit, I use all of them for the welfare of this patient man in the same way as the mother feeds the child. (27)
May the gods and the earth feed you. Prajapati, the father of all gods, saved you. Som's wives and herbs rescued you from death. (17)
O Radiant and Prajapatiputra Pooja! Come your stota to me. We both meet. You be the protector of our yajna. 
 O Indra! You are pure. You give us pure force. You be clean and remove obstacles. Kill our enemies. You give us pure wealth and gems and opulence etc. 
O earth! Don't destroy my intellect and initiation. May the water god be happy for me and ask for my age to increase. May water as beneficial as mother be beneficial for me. (3)
Wishing, this night kidnaps the tejas of lions, elephants, rhinos, tigers, etc. It pulls the velocity of the ashch and the word of the man. O night! You are radiant and take various types of forms. (4)
 Someras can hold everyone. It is a deed and enhancer the power of the gods. It enters the pitcher by filtering. Powerful hosts squeeze this. It can absorb itself in the waters of rivers like a powerful horse. 
I see the great importance of deathless agni in the dying people. Both of their jaws are separate and full of teeth. These jaws feed on the wood without chewing the stotha. 
O swollen Mon! You bring us all the possessions in heaven and on earth. 
Give it to earth! You be compatible with me in conquering the enemy. Oh my god! You get ready to catch my enemy. O saints and fathers of Angira Gotriya, the characters of Somras! Try that the enemies who betray me will die. (5)
O Indra! You become the king of the earth by demonstrating your strength. You are great and unbeatable because of your strength. 
O Satyarup Aschinikumaro! You protected the sage Bhuju, who had fallen into the sea and was sinking on the strings, by a boat of a hundred stalks and made them capable of performing yajna. 
It was through this act of abhichar that this king opposed his enemies and suppressed them and attained perfection. O Som and Rudra! You are very sharp and happy. May you make us victorious in this war and give us happiness. (7)
I also break the head of the one who is my enemy, evil-hearted and hater among the brothers. (1)
Indra picked up the arrow as soon as he was born and asked his mother, "Who is fierce and famous by power?" 
 Just as the waves of the ocean meet in the ocean, somerus is found in the water. Like buffaloes found in the forest, somerus becomes one in the water. 
We worship rigveda and samaveda through havi. The host performs yajna karma through Rigveda and Samaveda. Both of these Vedas adorn the pavilion called Sadas and convey the yajna to the gods. (1)
 Both sisters 
O God of agni being praised! It is for your service that this Kumar should grow free from disease etc. Those who are innumerable violent diseases and vampires should also not do violence to this child. Just as the mother protects the son by taking him in her lap, in the same way, the god named Friend should protect this child from sin. (1)
O agni! For our victory, bring the nymphs roaming in space to the ajya i.e. disgust and bring fine dust particles, sugar and water to our opposing jurors, so that they may be defeated. According to his share, While attaining Havi, Dev is satisfied with two types of Havi i.e. Soma and Ghrit. (2)
Hey Mon! You come as our desires, touching all kinds of wealth, heavenly and earthly. 
O the conqueror Indra! You were kind to the blind and lulle abandoned by all the relatives. No one can destroy the happiness you have given. 
O Indra! Let not unknown violent and hostile people attack us. O Shur Indra! May we be humble and get success in many tasks with you. 
O Indra Dev! You are wanted by the people. You are fierce, courageous, intelligent, fast, energetic and very arrogant. O Indra Dev! Dev Mata Aditi conceived you in the womb. The Marudagans have praised you faithfully. (64)
O Indra of the most strong and hiranyavarna! Although you give abundant food, it is still called rare all over the place. 
This stotao! In the verse in which you are possible, praise the heroic, the one who defeats enemies, the most intelligent, the all-time famous and powerful Indra, with great sentences when you are intoxicated with Soma. 
He is greater than God Jhuloka, Earth, Devas and Asuras. What conception did the waters have, where all the gods saw themselves joined together? 
They grow quickly like seeds soaked with savarna manu water. They are ready to give away hundreds of horses containing hundreds of horses immediately. 
O perspiration! You rained water. Now stop the water. You have made the dry places watery, which have to be saved and walked. You produced herbs and water for the food of the people, so you received their praises. 
O Indra! May we receive the rich south that fulfills your desire for praise. O psalmist Indra! Don't give it to anyone else other than us. We will receive the best sons and grandsons and praise you in this yajna. 
O Indra who moves around in the rann intensity! You destroyed ninety cities of his enemies for king Divodas, who performed havan in the yagna and did your will. O glorious Indra! You had thrown the Shambar Asura down from the mountain for the welfare of the visiting divodas king and gave unlimited wealth with your power. That money was not a little, not a whole. 
O Jupiter! Don't hand us over to thieves, those who are pleased with the abuse, the enemies, the seekers of foreign wealth, and the deities and the sacrificial opponents. 
Does not such a person who deviates from Yog get deprived of both material and spiritual success, O mighty-armed Krishna, and perish like a broken cloud with no position in either sphere?
O wind! Bring herbs that destroy all diseases and destroy the sin that causes disease. O wind! You are the remover of all diseases, that is why you are called the messenger of Indra etc. gods. (3)
O Earth! Just as the father embraces his sons, so embrace this odana. Here the auspicious thing flows. You tap our udaan and know our true resolve. (12)
 Som is a holy and green one. They are used sacredly from birth by the gods and their generations. 
Oh, Usha! Give us as much money as you did when you heard the praise of the ancient hymns. People know you by the tone of a hymn called Taurus. You opened the strong door at the time of theft of cows by the panies. 
This Prajapati form Taurus digs the earth with its four legs, dropping its face from all four legs, causing depression. This bull gives food to the farmer with his labor. (10)
The lightning that completes all the clouds with its roar, let it fall down or stay in its place and the rising sun down my enemies with its powerful radiance. (15)
Those who speak the truth and the chief, Dyava-Prithvi, should first call for agni in the yajna. The agni god sat on the altar, inspiring humans to perform yajna and holding the flame-like souls to call the gods. 
The inclined apanpathas have created a womb in those waters. They become children and drink their water and the water licks them. They are the ones with bright colours that have pervaded the world in the form of food. 
O Shur Indra! Praiseworthy and rich people, protect us. Be happy to drink the somp that we have squeezed by taking the cover form of a cover in battle. 
O Lord Jupiter! You are revered by people in yajna. You are adorned in heaven. You deserve to be the master of everything. You protect all the people with the power of love and will. Please give us the best money. You are amazing. You have been accepted in the sub-theorem character. That's why you are Jupiter. The device is your native place. (3)
All living beings subsist on food, and food is produced by rains. Rains come from the performance of sacrifice, and sacrifice is produced by the performance of prescribed duties.
O working agni! We light the lights of the water-showering lights and the great ones who irrigate you with the offering of ghee. 
The yupa produced as a tree on earth makes the days better by adorning the days in all ways by adorning them with ghee etc. in the yajna containing human beings. The meritorious adhwaryu etc. who perform the yajnakarma, according to their wisdom, wash it with water and purify it. The bright ones who give money to the gods speak the praise of the yupa. 
 O Indra! You come to give us money. Make those who walk on the path of peace fortunate. You fulfill our cow-related wishes. 
O agni! You make us energetic and Ayushmann again. You save us from sin again. (40)
Hundreds of enemies could not commit violence while attacking with weapons etc. and being inferior to their lives. Indra completed the eye, life and strength between the unsmerged gem by the enemies. May the overstate gem protect you. (3)
An increase in unwanted children results in hellish life both for the family and for those who destroy the family. Deprived of the sacrificial offerings, the ancestors of such corrupt families also fall.
O agni! Please protect our nearest soldiers who are struggling with the enemies. Please protect the place where we are too. (71)
O human protector and enemy-destroying friend and Varuna! When you come to the land of welfare and delightful yajna, you give us happiness. 
Indra, who stopped the clouds, caught the gold man, the protector of the water, the destroyer of the enemies and the one who covered everyone. Indra then killed the stepless, insignificant and destructive-speech-loving Vritra with his powerful thunderbolt. 
Wearing sthavar and jangam, Aditya Dev protects the whole world, the lord of huge sacrifices, he protects the helu water of Aditya Prana. They are going to make truthful and hymns debtless. 
The agni, set up by Prajapati Manu and the radiant agni, sends our heart to the gods through his scented mouth. The shobnayagnas give the best money to the agni host and call upon the gods, they are without death and radiant. 
Install Indra, the assh indra of the bright and green golden, on the kusha. We will praise Indra located there. 
O indra, the rainfeder and destroyer of the asura city! May you be pleased with our new hymns and give us happiness while protecting us in all respects. Born in the tribe of Divodas, we praise you. Just as the sun rises in the day, so do you receive progress by our praise. 
O Lord Indra of the horse named Hari! You drink the somp you squeezed in the morning. The afternoon yajna is yours. O Indra! You do sompan with the gem-giving sages whom you have made your friend through the best of your deeds. 
Fire has been given birth by Dyava-Prithvivi. The waters, the skins and the bhrigus have been obtained by the lightnings. Vayu and other gods have made agni for the yagna of human beings. 
She is the one who was born as Usha first of all and she wiped out the darkness of creation. Usha related to Virat enters all the ushas and lights it. All the gods like Soma, Surya, Agni etc. are under Virat. Virat Roop Usha is the wife of Surya. (11)
Tejasvi Varuna and Ashwinikumar serve Vishnu as the yajna form of the host of the Ritvijas. Vishnu, who has the friendship of hosts, etc., possesses the noble and heavenly force and makes the cloud unmasked to rain. 
O Indra and Mon! You illuminate Usha and raise the sun up with its light. You stabilize heaven through space and make Mother Earth famous. 
Indra's arms are conquering the demons who hate the gods, giving gross and expressed results. I worship these arms for my welfare. These arms are admirable by all, strong like bulls and capable of violating enemies. Both the arms of Indra, who are endowed with supreme opulence, are pre-decided for all worshipers. I worship them for the attainment of the uninitiated i.e. yoga and the protection of the attainment i.e. for the creation. These arms have defeated the army that obstructed the gods living in heaven. (1)
Those who dedicate their actions to God, abandoning all attachment, remain untouched by sin, just as a lotus leaf is untouched by water.
O Indra, all the gods possess power and wisdom by imitating you. O Lord of all cows Indra! You are praised by many. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
Arjun said: O Infallible One, please take my chariot to the middle of both armies, so that I may look at the warriors arrayed for battle, whom I must fight in this great combat.
This work of Savita Dev is not worthy of opposition, because they hold the whole world. Savita with beautiful fingers inspires the earth and sky to expand. 
Nishching, well-situated in the kalash, the bright and green-colored mons cover the cow's milk-curd, etc., like clothes. 
Oh my god! Destroy the kidnapper completely. (2)
Jupiter protects us from sinful enemies in the west, north and south directions. May Indra protect us in the east and central part. Friends' friend Indra give us money. 
O Indra! We increase your strength by performing the rites and the yajman-yajna of your servants and go to you to perform the havan. O mighty Indra, the mighty one! By your grace, let us have admirable warriors in battle in the same way as they came near to God. 
It is on indra's behalf that these poems, words, verses and hymns have been made. Near the same Indra who accepts the hymns, the sage Atrivanshi speaks the hymns and becomes radiant. 
I serve the agni, which is related to the praiseworthy Vaishnavar Agni, the best, the undeserved, and the desire of the glorious sages, the one who fulfills the will of the bhugivanshi sages, the beloved of all, the revolutionaries and the adorned agni with divine light. 
 O hosts! Indra is self-conscious and glorious. They are going to do hundreds of things together and compete with enemies. They come to havan to donate money to the hosts. Reach as fast as a horse. Worship them with hundreds of prayers for your protection. 
You both come to us from heaven by a golden and well-rotating chariot. Let not the other hosts who wish you stop you, that is why we have praised you first. 
O Indra! Just as the glorious and famous food given in the past was yours, similarly it is at this time also. You live in a yajna that fulfills your desires. The rain that you make between the earth and the sky can be seen in the light of the sun's rays. Indra, who is in search of water, gives yagya fruits to his brothers and knows the way to get water. 
O agni! The water is the place of your entry. You stop the drugs and are located in the form of the womb in those same medicines. 
Hearing the words of these stones, it is as if the birds flying in the sky are saying words. These stones dance like krishnasar deer roaming in the forest. These stones bring down the crushed mons and hold a large amount of white colored water like the sun. 
O Indra! May we get more food than you do. You should make us achieve the fame or wealth that is not achievable by the enemies. We increase your strength through someras or stotra. (3)
All medicines are water disorders. Thus, water is the best medicine for disease prevention. Water is a medicinal form for the whole world, that water should be a disease-relieving medicine for you. (3)
The Brahmin's cow runs like a thunderbolt and rises like agni. (7)
O agni of praise in the people! You are able to follow us as a guest-like beloved, as delightful as the present stakeholder in the city and as a son. 
Hota performed yajna for Idra Dev. They are age-old. Usha and Ratri are huge. They are well crafted and omnipresent. Please accept both the ladies. They worship them with their senses. We wear burden-bearing cows for them. Please accept pray and indra dev and the hosts should please perform yajna for them. (29)
The new infantry agni is very strange. This child does not go to his parents to drink milk. Parents have given birth to a child despite not having breasts. This child performs great messengers only after being born. 
Indra has expanded the dyava-prithvivi by the importance of his power and made the sun bright. All Bhuvans are bound by indra's laws. The Somras is in the possession of Indra. 
I am the taste in water, O son of Kunti, and the radiance of the sun and the moon. I am the sacred syllable Om in the Vedic mantras; I am the sound in ether, and the ability in humans.
O agni! Just as two thieves who roam in the forest and ready to kill him in the act of theft tie the passenger with a rope and pull him, so our two hands churn you with the help of ten fingers. O agni! This is the new eulogy for you. Just as horses are added to the chariot, so you mix your radiance in this yajna. 
 O Indra! Everyone accepts the importance of you. Everyone worships you. You destroyed the enemies with your force. You got a high status by your best deeds. The power power of the person who sings your glory increases. You act very quickly. You fulfill our wish quickly. 
O God of Agni! You are the destroyer of the enemy, that is why give me the power to destroy the enemy. This havi is well done havan. (1)
Once heaven arose. The earth was created only once. Milk was once brewed from the mother of the maruts. Nothing happened after that. 
O Sahartu Indra! I edit the mighty Mon and all the praises for you. O Indra! You give us happiness. 
O God who considers Cupid to be greater than you! May you be happy while consuming my disgusting ajya. (8)
Those who are eleven on earth, the god named Aditya, they should consume Havi while performing this havan. (13)
O herbs that destroy diseases! Protect this man from tuberculosis through the disease-destroying power, semen and force that you have. I make all the medicines with mantras. (5)
The animals which have never gone to return, they should come to this gaushala of mine. Savita Dev should install all the animals for whom the air moves together to protect them and the children whose uterine calves are known in this gaushala in such a way that they never have parts. (1)
 Someras is blissful. He's clean. He is prepared for Indra with maruts. Someras is of many streams. It is filtered in a sieve and purified. Then the host purifies it further with mantras. 
O agni! You are indra's armor, the one who travels everywhere, the soul of all, the body of all and the man of all. I come to your shelter with all my family and entire property. (13)
 O Indra! Even big mountains can't deter you. No one can stop the money you give to us worshippers. 
Sun holds fire, water and Diya-earth. Sun makes the world observable through light. The name of this light is Surya. 
Who knows the birth of these maruts? Who first experienced the happiness of the maruts? When they added the earth to the chariot, who knew their power? 
The water is immense. The world is contained in itself. He holds agni in the womb. From that the gods originated. Apart from them, for which god should we now make a law? (25)
Savita, who has true dharma, is like the same divine God. They are the confluence of all wealth, that is, virtuous people enter them. Indra does not enter the group of wealth, that is, in virtuous souls. (42)
O Revati (money wali gauo)! You should be happy at the yajna site at the time of yajna. You wander into the enclosure before you go. Always be in the eyes of the host. You stay here. Don't go anywhere. (21)
From Prince Indrat I have obtained two horses of simple speed and from the son of Riksh, I have got green horses and from the sons of Ashwamedh, I have got red horses. 
Swaha for the sake of leaving. Swaha for running. Swaha for the uplifting. Swaha for the speed of excellence. Swaha for sitting. Swaha for the rise. Swaha for the fast. For the sake of force. To be repeated. For repeated references. For those who tremble. Swaha for trembling. For those who want to listen. Listen to it. Swaha to see. For those who have seen it. Look at it. Swaha for blinking the eyelids. For those who eat, love it. For the one who drinks, for him. For the one who dissolves urine, swaha. For the sake of doing it. For the one who has done it. (8)
Rita, Satya, Tapa, Rashtra, Labour, Dharma, Karma, Past, Bhavishyakal, Semen, Lakshmi and Bal are dependent in the force of Yajnashesh. (17)
They will give us money with horses, cows and barley, like the welfare and the sakha indra cows that give milk from large streams. 
 O agni! You are brave, successful and with good intellect. You provide wealth and fame from generation to generation. You please impress us. Give us food power. 
O agni! You are the messengers and bearers served by the gods. You are the chariot of the yagnas. You meet AshwiniKumars and Usha and give us enough money to be fruitful and powerful. 
 O Indra! You remove all enemies who compete in wars. You are a witch. 
O ghost! Let these green paddy become red white songs for you. Black paddy should become red cows and sesame seeds should be their calves. Such cows are never destroyed. May they always give you the milk that gives you strength. (34)
We call indra, who has a huge body, a rich man, who hears the call, who kills the enemies in fierce battles, and who has won the enemies well in this war, to gain food and protection. 
O agni! You are gracious. Today, the host has made the content of enjoyment for you lawfully and piously. Please take that material containing ghee and give your hosts the pleasures of heaven. (26)
The gods, devs without contaminated bodies, have worn the punishment made of the Arlu tree for the peace of obstacles in the intended work. Manu, who created humans, did the same. Just as bulls are made unable to breed, I am neutralising obstacles with a dry leather rope. (2)
As long as I see you in front of the sun, my power of seeing will not be destroyed. (33)
May the goddesses who follow men and be happy with us to protect and give us the ultimate happiness. 
O stotao! When You are removed from Someras, fulfill the desires of Donor Indra through Someras. Get more summeras for Indra, so that he can nourish us. Indra Somaras does not hinder the fulfillment of the squeezing host. 
O germs! I destroy you not to be born again in the same way as the sage Agni, Kanva and Jamdagni destroyed you with the power of mantras. I destroy all germs by the mantra of Agastya Rishi. (3)
O workman and a agni of good fortune of mankind! You elaborate the flashing flames in the dark nights more than before. O lord! Give us fruit according to karma and destroy sin. Oh, very young man! Make us desire wealth. 
O Indra! You cut off our enemies and remove our war obstacles. You give us the money that everyone wants to get. (1)
The guru should not give more fruit than the person who performs the ritual of Brahmaudan Satra Yagya wants to get from the mind. (25)
May the yajna increase our paddy, barley, urad, sesame, moong, gram, priyang (rye), small rice. May yajna increase our sawan rice, nivar, wheat, lentils. May yajna give us all the fruits. (12)
Hey Ritvijo! Please the wise agni god with the divine hymn. Carry our havya according to the agni method. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You must subdue the person who considers yourself to be greater than the people we live in. We call you at this time to get sons, cows, and water in battle. 
O holy one of the shins and the agni of the gods! In the yajnas, the hosts who are laying kusha around and willing to serve you serve your attainable yajnamandapa. You give them money. 
The vampires who together make me angry, just as mosquitoes increase the anger of the elephant; I know them to be evil worthy of abuse, just as there are small-bodied insects in place of mass communication. (9)
O patient man! All the herbs that the physician knows as medicines, I bring all those herbs for your treatment. (26)
O Mon worthy of being chosen by all! You, like the ancient times, make me the paths of new sources and adornments of praises ancient. O Mon with many deeds and more words! Let us receive your parts which are unbearable, violent and great to demons in the yagna. 
O Indra! The disgusted somersa seems to be the best taste for you. The earth and the sky are capable of themselves and have the best intelligence to compose good poetry. (6)
O thunderbolt Indra! You had torn that famous and huge cloud to pieces with your thunderbolt and left the water stopped by that cloud to flow down. Only you hold the worldwide force. 
Semen capable of producing the son of Prajapati is the best. Prajapati sacrificed his human-benevolent semen, which he had irrigated in the body of his beautiful Usha. 
O Ashwinikumaro! We expand praises and distribute food. You come to our yagna riding on the chariot. The udders of cows have milk similar to the elaborate yajna. Bhutansh Rishi attained his desire by making this hymn of Ashwinikumaras. 
O agni! You are born from earth. Fire has emerged through knowledgeful action. They are soon ignited by arani manthan. They are bright and amazing. They get more spread from the air. (14)
O agni! You are the ultimate favored and astrologer. You sit in the page of paradise. Provide world light for the life, apana and vyan of all the worlds. The Sun is the ruler of you. You sit down like Angira Rishi. (58)
O beautiful! You satisfy the gods. You wear prana, udan (pranavayu) vyana (an air that resides in the body). You give longevity. The earth holds you. You are nectar in milk form. Please savita dev to wear you with sleeping hands without holes. (20)
Indra is a thunderbolt to our enemies who oppose the gain of wealth by us. We call upon Indra to get a little or abundant wealth. 
Oh, Usha! Just as the organs of the heart, hoof, horn, etc. of the animal sacrificed in the yajna are taken in order or just as the loan is given gradually, so gradually remove all the bad places of the disaster. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
 O Mon! You inspire us to worship the sun with your defense tools. Please serve our interest. 
I want to know! Know that that water form Brahma does not live on earth nor does it reside in the sky. Due to the same water, all trees and vines survive. (1)
 O Mon! You have been removed with the good fingers of good hands. You are going to sanctify. You make a sound while going to the urn. You give the desired and yellow money 
Five harnesses, five cows and five seasons were made to suit the five powers. The five directions were supported by these fifteen i.e. five harnesses, five cows and five seasons. She became a folk for Yogi. (15)
We please the great, unique and many-called Indra, who was called by many, encouraged by many, through yajna. Always be the subject of praise by us to achieve the same great power as indra rath. 
The hymn who performs the yajna, with the desire to please Indra, worships the Somras for the paan of Indra through dashapavittra, increases Indra by the stotras and limits the qualities of Indra through the hymns. 
Just as a creeper named Vandana wraps the tree from all sides, in the same way, the poverty that does not seem to be bad and dear has surrounded me from all sides. O Savita Dev! Establish this poverty from me and my territory elsewhere. Savita, with gold in her hands, has given us money. (2)
O friend B Varun Dev! May you be pleasant to us. We give you an annamaya havi. You remove our diseases. You ignore our enemies and demons. You drive wolves and such violent creatures away from us. (10)
These enemies should go to the mouth of death due to hunger, poverty, slaughter and fear. O Indra and Sharva, kill this enemy army with axes and nets. (18)
God is the womb of the gods, the father of the intellects and the guardian of the subjects. Savita Dev, the god of God gods, inspires the world. The sun illuminates everywhere. (14)
May the Goddess Dyava-Prithivirup, who created the God jupiter, increase them with her glory. Oh, my friends! You also raise to the enhanceable Jupiter. They have made pleasantly swimming and bathable water for the growth of food. 
The deathless and divine night pervaded the vast sky and covered the things that were living below and high. The light of the night stars hinders the darkness. 
The sun steals the water filled in the lower place by the rays that wish to go to the yagna, the low dynamic, the attainable by the hosts, the sacrificial enhancer, the adornment, the moving and the ruling over all. 
The earth which holds the forests and sustains the creatures of the world, the earth which holds gold in its chest i.e. mines and provides shelter to the global agni, that earth will provide wealth for us. (6)
 O agni! You are holy. You appear from the reviews. You are stable and forerunner in yajna. You give money to brahmins, hotas, omniscients, scholars, etc. We worship you with a very good heart. 
Hota performed yajna for Indra Dev. He increased them and increased their weight and semen. They are wishful. They come to the yagna. Please take havi as nectar. We perform yagna for them. Do yajna for them. (5)
O Jupiter! Abrahman, who prays for opulence, should not eat the food of Vilipti and Sut Vasha and Vasha. (46)
O patient man! Hundreds or thousands of medicines that calm the disease, this karma is the best in all of them and removes bleeding. (2)
Garudas with the same velocity as the mind crossed the cities made up of people walking. They went to heaven and brought soma for the thunderbolt Indra. 
 O Indra! You are immortal and happy. The sophisticated Somers in the House is heading towards you. Please accept it. 
Indra's chariot is the first, the second of the Devas and the third of Varuna. The chariot of serpents is called Apma i.e. low dynamic, which is more delightful than Sthanu i.e. dry trees and moves fast. (1)
The agnis are green. They are going to get a glimpse of smoke and increase from air. They try again and again to go to heaven. (2)
O pillars of the tree and made of scholarly yajna! You take the grain to the gods bound by the rashna. Taste the botanical deities and deliver them to the gods. Please protect my call. 
Indra pierced the cloud for water, pulled down the streams and held milk in the cows. 
O Arati! I know you are weak and painful. That's why you stay away from me. I can remove your destructive power. (7)
O deathless, omniscient agni! You bring from the god Usha and give different types of money for the host who gives the havi from the god of usha and can last. You bring the gods who wake up in the morning here today. 
This Indra is powerful, rich and superior among all worlds. They kill the enemy as soon as they are born. As soon as they appear, their protective powers become powerful. (4)
We praise the agni god of the bull and the infertile goat whose food is capable of conceiving and on which Soma is located. (3)
O Indra with many deeds, giving more, lord of more and with vast means of protection! We know you. 
They are squeezed, glistened and dripping in the chamas, and so on, give us a son with the rain and the adornment force from the sky. 
O Indra! Your welfare hands donate money to the host with the ritual of best deeds. What is your position? Why don't you make us happy? Why don't we have mercy on giving us money? 
When Indra, a friend of the Nuggavas, the friends of the Angiragotrian sages, went to the bill containing the cows stopped by the panjis, he could see the sun in the darkness of the bill with ten angiras. 
Yama- O Yummy! How do we truth-makers call the untruth the truth? The sun, which holds water, is also located in the sky with his wife. Therefore, both of us with the same mother and father will not be able to fulfill your wish in front of them. (4)
O agni! Havi related to you is in their abode i.e. heaven with the gods. At this time, we satisfy you well through disgust. O agni! May you receive divine water and sing for you. (6)
The mons holding wealth for us by power vibrate the parts above them in such a way that the mighty bull shakes its horns. 
O Ashwinikumaro! We will overcome the darkness because of you. This psalm is designed for you only. Come to the path of the sacrificial god, so that we may gain food, strength and long life. 
The harming sneeze away from us. While going to get wealth, the man should see the jackal, hear his word and see the impotent - all these should calm our sins. (5)
The shackled and the thousand-streamed mons flow in many ways by crossing the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. 
O medicine! Eliminate the disease immediately after the experiment and destroy many diseases. There are countless herbs related to you, in them you are the best. You are the remover of diseases like diarrhea and destroy the root causes of them. (2)
O kanvagotrian sages! When Indra is pleased to hear his story, then you describe the sage-wali som. 
O Maruto! Lift rainwater from the sea. Raise the bright and watery sky cloud. The water rained by the cloud roaring like a bull and inspired by the wind should satisfy the earth. (5)
May the gods maintain food for our human beings and die of enemies excited for wealth. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as ten bulls, then make this cow have children, you will be considered ineffective. (10)
 O agni! We invite agni to our yagna. You are holy and bright. You don't let the energy fall down. 
O Indra! We have prepared some of them. Come here to our yajna and sit on these scattered cushions and drink Somras. (1)
 O hosts! Indra is going to cross our fleet. They are going to show fear to our enemies. They are the givers of cattle wealth. They are the givers of food. I always praise them. 
O men who have come near death! Let the wind go for your happiness. May the water rain nectar for you. May the Sun God heat up to give happiness to your body. O man! May death god have mercy on you.  (5)
Nakul, who came from the mountain, said, "The poison of the scorpion is useless." O scorpion! Your poison is ineffective. 
O Aditiputra Devo and Devmata Aditi! The son of Pluty and the learned sage had raised you all. By the grace of the gods, human beings get dominion. Sage Gaya had praised the god group. 
O Indra! Drink the well-crafted somers and get up running your chin. (3)
I have called Varun, the friends and the host along with the wives through the year. 
Those vasishtaputras, intertwined by the knowledge of their hearts, roam around in a world of thousand branches. They went to the nymph, knitting the cloth extended by Yama. 
O sun! Through these psalm-like dynamic ass, you rise up and walk in front of all of us. You friends, Varuna, Aryama and Agni, go and tell us innocent. 
The Stotas serve Ritdev to subdue Ritadev through his praises.  The force of Ritadev wishes for water. It is Ritadev who has authority over the vast and inaccessible earth-sky. The earth-sky give them milk like cows. 
Which gives the agni like a bright host hymn. He attains prosperity through food. Fires with strange rays make him a consuming goshala full of cows by its unique means of defense. 
May Indra Dev shine all of us with the gods who are illuminated by the light of the sun, the light that is present in the cows, the light that is present in horses. May Indra Dev hold him for all of us. Fire and Jupiter and wear it for all of us. (47)
Please employ kinnar (skilled in singing) ul for Prajapati. Please employ especially for lion and bilav dhata dev. Please employ kank for direction. Employ smoke for the southeast direction. Employ chidas, red snakes and lotus-eating birds for Tvashta Dev. Please employ the crouch bird for speech. (31)
Aditya is strong because of Som and Earth is huge because of Som. For this reason, it lives near Som Nakshatras. (2)
 O agni! We are your friends. You are very revered. We admire you from Vedic testimonies. 
Indra, along with the Maruts, cut off the head of the vritra with a thunderbolt of a hundred parvas. 
O conscience! Just as the old hosts, our ancestors, all beings and modern people were successful by praising indra, the best of the gods, the one who ascended to kusha, the all-knowing, the one before us, the mighty, the quick and the defeater, so be you. 
May all gods please listen to our praises. May the gods who are in the space world, the gods who are in heaven, also listen to our praises. May the God of Fire be pleased to accept our divine gift. In the yajna, we have laid the seats of Kush for them. They please sit on it. (53)
I extend Rudra's bow only to kill the brahmadweshi Tripur demon. I fight for the welfare of the people and i am pervading the deva-prithvivi. 
Indra Deeptimati with unlimited power for work is the form of Dakshina. (3)
We praise Indra, the master of vast and vast wealth, who conquered the enemy army by force of oxygen, who gave the best money to the prolific and eulogists. 
Salutations to the dogs. Salutations to the masters of dogs. Salutations to the deva of the world. Salutations to Rudra Dev. Salutations to Vishva Swami. Salutations to Pashupati. Salutations to Pashupati. Salutations to those with blue neck and blue throat. (28)
Prajapati is loved by all. We consecrate you for Prajapati's satisfaction. For the satisfaction of Indra and Agni, they anoint you. We consecrate you for the satisfaction of the air. We consecrate you for the satisfaction of Vishve Dev. We consecrate you for the satisfaction of all gods. Please destroy the fickle high flames of yajna who are going to cause harm to them. Please take away dogs and such persons who harm the yajna. (5)
 O Mon! You're green. You've been squeezed with fingers. You go downstream in Dronakalsh. You motivate your friend Indra to go to wars. 
O flowers and fruit-bearing herbs! Be pleased with this patient. You are as joyful as the ashes, the one who arises and the patients are about to overcome diseases. 
 O Indra! You are non-violent. You are kind to the host who gives havi. You are shining. We get your grace. 
O Ashwinikumar! Just as the word conch does, so the sage Agastya, the best of the sacrificors among human beings, awakens you every day with thousands of praises. They want rainwater to relieve the sorrow of summer. 
O Indra! Adhwaryu etc. has prepared milk mixed sweet mon for you with the help of stones and water. O wise and learned Indra with a visible aura! Drink mon knowing your beautiful praises. 
Som, which gives the desired fruit to those who praise, is prepared by filtering with cloth. This Som is going to inspire days and nights. It also enhances ushakal and light. It is the life blood of rivers. This Som does a lot of words while going towards the urns. May this Soma enter the stomach of Pujya Indra in the three sawans. (58)
O God of agni! Wish that the one who praises you receives the desired, infinite wealth. Scholars say that you are like a happy father to obey a weak host. You are extremely knowledgeable. You give knowledge to the host like an ignorant child and give him knowledge of the directions. 
The swadheen yashwalas and the esoteric all the somas hold Indra and Varuna dev in the houses. One of them follows the subjects by dividing them and the other kills the undefeated enemies. 
The ritvijas had established the agni in the water group like the mother and in the trees, present, beautiful, unsettled by beings for fear of burning, strange, hidden in the cavity, rich and desireing to be desired everywhere. 
When Surya wished for her husband and Savita had given her daughter to Som with all her heart, som was the bridegroom who wished for the bride at that time. Ashwinikumar became Surya's bridegroom. 
I am speaking this praise by becoming a desire for food. May the grandson of the fast-paced water, i.e., the agni, give me more food and a better look to me. 
 O Indra! You are unique, vajra-wearing, extraordinary and the best. We want to offer somers to you. We request you to protect. We call upon you just as a weak man calls out to Sabal for his help. 
O Savita Dev! You make the yajna more energetic. You are the one who knows friendship and wins money. You increase our yajna. We praise you with Vedic mantras. Please confirm Rathantar and Brihatsam from Gaitra Sama. Swaha for Savita Dev. (8)
O inspired Sun God! You protect the yagnas of all hosts without getting angry and rise after the morning yajna. Today, when we take your name, god accepts our yajna. 
In the war in which people are likely to get benefits and money from being engaged, they call on you for help. O mighty! You protect us in the battlefield. Warriors in the battlefield receive protection from you. 
Like manu's yajna, in our yajna, may the calling of the devas, the supremely knowledgeable, the more meritorious of the gods inspire the fire gods towards our havya according to the classical dignity. O earth and sky! Let's know this thing about us. 
The Vaishnavar agni, due to its importance, is the lord of all human beings and worthy of being called to the yagnas with confirmatory food, king Purunith, son of Shatavani, praises the light-rich and beloved agni in many yajjanas. 
A wheel with five arms moves. All bhuvans are located in it. The axis that bears more load is not established on its own. That axis navel does not break when it is old. (11)
The leaders of the yajnako and the angiras who wished for agni had, with the idea of getting the cows, the protectors of the cows, spread all around, the hard, the cows-like and the goshala-like mountain was inaugurated with agni praises. 
In the district where the Ikshvaku king grows up as a appointee in the work of wealthy, enemy destroyers and protectors, the Panchjans living in that district progress by being happy in such a way as those living in heaven grow. 
O agni! The army of enemies that is ready for war, you throw it in the mouth of diseases. The army of enemies that is ready for war, thieves throw it in the mouth of bandits. O agni! We hold you for this purpose. (77)
Hey Mon! You destroy the darkness of space through your senses of knowledge and glistening and inspire the bearer juice in the violence-free yagna. 
Honey-filled streams of milk come out of the cows' trunks. Human beings become deathless because of them. The name of the ghrit is protectable because it is the tongue of the gods and the center of the nectar. 
Indra and Agni, who follow the gentlemen, calm down the disturbances committed by the yajnakartas and the sacrificial people and kill all the enemies. 
Ghee is dear to a yajna instrument called Juhu. (Ghee) After the bathing, please reach the beloved dham (yagyasthan). Please give insult to the hosts. Please reach the beloved dham (yajna sthan) after the burning of the yajna instrument (ghee) called Upabhrit. Ghee is dear to a yajna instrument called Ruva. After the bath, please visit his beloved dham (yagyasthan). O Vishnu! Please come to the place of sacrifice and worship. Protect the sacrifice, the means, the doers and its helpers. (6)
These deserts happily appease the host who performs the yajna with great pride and bow down to the powerful by power. They protect the stota from the violent, but have great hatred for the man who does not give the right. 
 Someras, crushed with stones, has been refined by the hosts with praises. May he please reach someras indra's stomach. 
When Devapi, as a priest of Shantanu and receiving the selection for Agnihotra, spoke a song that was heard and recited by the clouds, Jupiter gave him the power to speak. 
O sportsman and donor, Mon! You go to dashapavitra like charity, giving grace to the hymn. 
 O hosts! You are going to worship. You should praise the agni that is ignited in every yajna. Agni is immortal, knowledgeable and our friend. We worship them. 
O patient man! You have given up the disease that causes obstruction like an enemy and have attained happiness. You are situated in this welfare land that is received as the fruit of good deeds. Similarly, I redeem you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god who is the cause of disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the treason of Dev, Guru etc. and from the sin of Varun Dev. I make you sin-free with my mantra. May both the world and the earth be benefactors to you. (7)
O stones! You present the best somras. You become like a stopped horse when you are held by hand. The som squeezer host receives the force that removes the enemy. This stone also gives horses to get great wealth. 
O Rudra! Don't do the violence of our relative old. Don't do violence against our baby and the young man who is able to bear the load. Do not violence even the servants who carry the load. O Rudra! Don't do violence to our parents and our own bodies. (29)
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You protect us with your defence tools. By your grace, we can destroy enemies through our body. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You fill the somras in your stomach like great heroes. You are the protector of money and the enemy-wielding armaments. You are going to go to yagnas like birds, as beautiful as the moon, adorned with desire and admirable people. 
He became the swami of the gods and ishan. (5)
The Sapta Rishis, who created the creatures, made this voluntary instrument as the second hand of Dev Mata Aditi. This ladle should install this rice on the altar knowing the bodies of the ripe rice. (24)
O Shakdhum Brahmin and O Moon, the king of constellations! Bring us a day of virtue near the night, the constellations, the sun and the moon. (3)
The comb with wheat and other types of poos remained in the western part of the bones in this work. We please the present deities here, including Indra, who created heaven for the ghost for which this rite is being performed. (24)
Through the Gayatri verse, he composed the mantras of worship, with the help of archana mantras, sama, speech by nistupas, bipada, chaturshpada by vachana and a combination of letters together with the seven verses. 
Indra has filled the rivers with great and bright water. Indra has kept the most delicious foods in the newly married cow, so she walks around wearing milk. 
 Someras is the helper of the host in the yajna. It moves like a horse from transparent streams and goes to the urn. 
Indra is famous as Veer, suppressing prabalshatru and repeatedly changing places for hymns. Indra, the possessor of both the divine-earthly properties and the malice of the advanced people who do not squeeze the Somras, repeatedly calls his servants for protection. 
O Ashwinikumaro! We call upon your fast-moving chariot and meeting the cows. The chariot is holding suryakanya, equipped with a wooden seat for sitting, receiving praises and having more wealth. 
O Indra! Drink the most praiseworthy, imperceptible and intoxicating mon. The current streams of The Tejasvi Soma flow towards you in the sacrificial house. 
I make this request for the grateful Madhu Angiras and Adityas. The holy hand of the Brahmin should bring this odan to heaven as a fruit. (44)
O fire! Always follow us with shelter and be illuminated from all sides in your beloved place of sacrifice. O great and powerful fire! Your stotas will never scare me today or after. 
O godly and desirous of power, Maruto! When you add horses to the chariot, the mountains tremble with your fear. 
A cow with red etc. colors, easy to milk, always giving calves and given by Varuna for Atharva Rishi, can be imagined by a god with a sense of friendship with Jupiter Dev. The intention is that only Jupiter can do this. (1)
O aschinikumaro! We call to our yajna by the praises your fast-paced, praiseworthy, sky-flying, and unbreakable-like-headed chariot, so that we may gain food, strength, and long life. 
O Indra! You are the master of ancient heaven and the representative of innumerable heroes. In ancient times, my father called you, so I also call you. (3)
O agni! You are the protector of the priest's body. Please protect our body too. O agni! You are age-giving. Please give us (long) life. O agni! You are the domination (influence) provider. Please give us a discount. O agni! Please remove the shortcomings of our body and complete it. (17)
The streams of water coming out of the penetrated cloud move into the sky with velocity in the same way that the milch cow gives milk. Just as the fast-moving horses walk on the routes, so the rivers flow fast. 
O Jativeda Agni! You save me by your secrets from the hand of the invading monster to the stota. You kill the monster by being prominent and ignited. Let these birds eat that monster. 
Indra, by his power, has made the mountains moving around immovable, has dropped the waters of the clouds downwards, supported the earth that holds all, and with his wisdom has prevented the sky from falling down. 
Many have praised this Indra and many people have called for him. This hymn! Sing the glory of this Indra and establish him with your voice of praise. (4)
 O Ashwinikumaro! You are the inhabitants of heaven. Those wishing to attain heaven call upon you to fulfill their wishes. You reach out to those who praise. We call upon you. 
O Brahmaspati! Rise from your abode to grace us. We beseech you who wish the gods. Let the beautiful donors go to you. O Indra! You consume the somras of Brahmanaspati. 
Som, inspired by those who live in the water and squeezers, goes to Dronakalash. Som desires praises at this time while producing a glow and mixing cow's milk etc. in his form. 
If you fight, you will either be slain on the battlefield and go to the celestial abodes, or you will gain victory and enjoy the kingdom on earth. Therefore arise with determination, O son of Kunti, and be prepared to fight.
 Hey friend and Varun! You are going to do the best deeds. Please irrigate our cow places with ghee, milk. Please water for us the abodes of the hereafter with the best, sweet juices. 
May Brahma and Varun Dev, who create everyone, give us happiness. The earth should be the giver of happiness by removing our sorrows with grains. May the earth, earth and mountains give us happiness. May the praises of the gods benefit us. (3)
Just as the newly married cows go towards the goshala with milk, so do som go towards Dronkalash and Yajnashala. 
O man with tuberculosis! I take out the tuberculosis disease in your angang, romrom and joint joint, through the sukta of kashyap maharishi's mantras. (7)
This tauté! The meritorious, the praise-giver and the giver, come to the end in the yajna of a host like me, full of pride and honey. 
May Aryama Dev, Pusha Dev, Brihaspati Dev and devi fulfill our wish. We offer sacrifices to all of you. (29)
We praise the Gandharvas, the Apsaras, ashwinikumaras, tvashta, who are counted first. Let them free us from sin. (4)
In all the times, the present Indra should speak as our partisan and let us be a unsustainable motion and consume the food in the form of havya. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu Earth and Sky should worship her. 
 O Indra! You are powerful, joyful and strong, like a huge vessel with green horses.  Somerus is countless donors. You drink it and increase your enjoyment. 
O servants! You squeeze the soma for the soo drinker and the vajradhari Indra, cook the purodash to satisfy indra and do the duties of edra's beloved. Indra fulfills the havya by giving happiness to the host. 
When the Somras, squeezed by Vanchu, had pleased Indra, the kamvarshi Indra had spoken more words in the war. Purandar Indra drank somers and gave them back to the milch songs of Vasru. 
O Indra! You hear our praise and give us more money rich with various grains. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! You are the one who drives away the enemies and gives us money when you leave. 
O son of strength and a agni without death! Your praiseworthy fast gives food to the host. 
O Maruto! Our son is powerful. He is wise and bears enemies. We will subdue the Shanrus with his help to gain comfort and get the place of your intimacy. 
Let somras drinker and Vrat destroyer Indra come. Don't let him go away from us. May the Indra subdue the enemies with hundreds of defences. 
 The hosts filter someras in a gold urn. Someras makes a sound while going to the urn. The host worships this Someras. Someras is illuminated in the morning, afternoon and evening in these three savanas 
Oh God Ashwinikumaro! Just as young men pay attention to the call of the daughters, so also accept the hymns in our yajna. You come to the three saans of this yajna and together with Usha and Surya, accept our food. 
This stotao! Come in front of the fire of revolution, truthfulness, anti-enemy and divinely virtuous and praise him in the yajna. 
From the very beginning, Drapes Rasa (a divine juice) provides satiety to the deity and enhances the earth. Let's increase heaven. Irrigate the original location. Drapes transmit in the same original location. The seven offer sacrifices to the snakes. (5)
With the idea of serving the hymns, the most revered and the leaders of the people among the people of the wealth, praise Indra through ancient and new hymns. 
O cars that wear it! I take it from the wifeshala by reciting the ancient mantras and putting som etc on you. Like the sacrifice of the Psalms, let my praises go to the gods. The gods and the immortal sons living in divyadham should listen to this. 
Vaishnavar agni knows the fabric and says things worth saying from time to time. The protectors of water and the agn who wander in the blook know the world by looking at everyone in the form of the sun. 
Hey Ritvijo! Those who hold the hymns and are the protectors, we may join you to be the guardians of the food to increase Indra along with the maruts. 
O fire! The wise man who performs your yajna becomes the call of all like the moon in the sky and is also the chief of the princes. That's why we are especially your servants. 
You have eaten Odan or Odan has eaten you. (27)
The ushadhis, when they came down from heaven, said that the living person we enter into is not destroyed. 
O Indra! May we receive your unlimited strength. You give us the shining money that can give us victory when we fight with enemies. We make you powerful by increasing Somras through this hymn of ours. (6)
Darbha is going to mourn the serpent, it is the prevention of the poison of snakes called Young and Horse. The darbha, which removes the poison of a snake called Parush, is the obstacle of the chariot. (2)
The sage says to his dead son Waji: One part of you is agni, the other is air and the third is the bright soul. From these three passages, grow in welfare at the time of the entry of your body into agni, air and soul and become beloved in the realm of the Sun, the Supreme Father of the Gods. 
O agni! You are the head of the yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine cycle for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. Please take you to this divine yajna for yajna. (8)
The agne in which the host invokes the yagnakarmo have been the best of those who know the way. Our praises go near the agni that propels the Aryans and the agni that is produced. 
O God of agni! You give us wealth with vast admirable great splendor and power. 
O Adhwaryuo! Maya swallows everyone. The book swallows the word in bizarre forms. The rabbit bounces. In particular, the snake moves on the road. (56)
Hey Mon! You squeeze with the help of stones and speak the words and come to dronakalash and get the glorious best strength. 
 O Indra! Arrows follow enemies like carnivorous eagles. The army of enemies should become the food of the giddhas. No remains of them remain. Sinners engaged in sin should also not be saved. Carnivorous birds should follow them too. 
O Indra! Desire to drink this witful and squeezed mon. O Indra praised by many! Drink this satiating mon. 
The fast-paced and desiring mons of the gods, situated on the dashapavittra, destroys the demons and gives us huge food. 
Due to the koota of Vasha cow i.e. organ without horns, the substances of the donor are eliminated. The non-donor afflicts the location of the cow's horns with wood. By giving a cow without horns, his house is destroyed and by giving a kani cow, the money goes away. (3)
O O O O Son! Do not come to us with a ghritpeda i.e. the back of ghee. Come to us to appear with us in the hereafter and in the rainy season you will get the form of an old tool. He should separate the husk from you. (19)
You are bright, wonderful light. You are the one with the light of truth and jyotishman. This sacrifice is offered to the desert god in the west direction in the bright true form. (80)
I am Prahlad amongst the demons; amongst all that controls I am time. Know me to be the lion amongst animals, and Garud amongst the birds.
O agni! You kill the evil-minded and the unwise people who are exceptional with the weapons of condonation. Destroy those who are near or far away from us. Thus make the way of the host praising you to adorn. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O Indra! We attract thousands and hundreds of your cows to you. Our money came close to you. 
Som goes on to increase Indra, the apostles of Udak, making all the juices good for our work and destroying those who do not give alms. 
The man who wraps the dakshina of gold in a cloth receives the divine and earthly worlds. (14)
O wise Varun! Your light is spread over the sky, the earth, and all the world. Listen to our prayers and promise to protect us. 
Soma is holy. The light of their oblique rays spreads far and wide. They are all over the bottom. These rays hold semen. These rays are glorious. They hold the world from all sides up and down. (74)
The sky is my nurturer and giver, the navel of the earth is my friend to me and this vast earth is my mother. Between the two raised characters is the space-like vagina, where the father of the sky transfusions the womb of the mother in the form of the earth located far away. 
O nirvite! You are cruel in nature. We offer sacrifices to you to be free from the bondage of birth. Even though people call you the land, they consider you omniscient on all sides. (64)
Those who sit together in the ancestors like the demons, father, grandfather, etc., eat the havi by doing maya and do violence to the sons and grandsons who donate pind, take those elusive demons out of the pitrayag by agni god. (28)
They go to Dronakalash for indra's sake with the help of the radiant, drenched, inspired by adhwaryu and inspired by the great soma adhwaryu. 
I give up the water that is disturbing, destroying, migrating, suppressing the mind, causing inflammation, getting from digging and contaminating the body, combining my enemies with it. I won't touch that myself. (2)
A person who does quick deeds enjoys food on the basis of great karma. Just as the carpenter bows the name of the wheel made of fine wood, so I will bow down with praise to indra called by many. 
You are a land-loving and possessing beauty. You are the guardian of the whole world. You have your grace on earth. You make him strong. Don't let there be violence on him. (18)
By the grace of Tatvasha, let a son, bright as gold, adornment, a yajnakarta, an annadata, a man of advanced qualities, a hero and a son who loves gods, be born in our house. He will give us a child to protect the family and let our food go to the gods. 
 O Indra! Your chariot is golden. Your horses are tied in the chariot with just signs. Please bring those horses of yours to the yagna place by sitting in the chariot to feed you Someras. 
Cows, sheep and goats have been called with respect to live happily in our house. We call upon them for the prosperity of food. We call upon you for welfare and prevention of evil. We want to have cosmic and transcendental happiness. (43)
The one who knows this receives control. He also subdues those who subdue them. (9)
O agni! Ancient and happy hosts call you with ghee and ignite you with the best of samidahas. You are watered by the herbs when you grow up and live present by revealing earthly grains. 
Sambhal means that by placing the mind in the messenger and the sin in the blanket, we become clean worthy of sacrificing. May that purification purify our age. (67)
 O agni! You are intelligent, loving and humble. We ignite you with samidhas in a huge yajna. 
O mighty-armed Arjun, illumined persons distinguish the soul as distinct from guṇas and karmas. They perceive that it is only the guṇas (in the shape of the senses, mind, etc.) that move amongst the guṇas (in the shape of the objects of perception), and thus they do not get entangled in them.
The devas who protected their elixir had possessed the money-giving agni for the original abode of wealth, for the sake of mixing the riches, complementing the desire of the stothas, and as a form of yajna. 
The gods who said that we gave the host the instrument of victory, whose ten emitters we have come to receive Soma, the light of such gods and the vast wealth are very gracious. May all the gods give us food in the best of the yajjanas. 
O Aj! You should climb into the world of such pious, where the violent tiger cannot go and where all the rare substances are available. Panchodan given for Brahma gives satisfaction to the donor. (9)
Swaha for Prajapati. For happiness. Swaha for the best. To acquire knowledge. Swaha for Man Swaroop Prajapati. Swaha for The Mind Form Prajapati. Swaha for the uniquely known Aditya. Swaha for the middle. Love for happiness. Swaha for the holy Saraswati Goddess. Swaha for Vishalvati Devi. Swaha for Pusha Dev. Swaha for pusha dev with the best path. Swaha for manavdhari puja dev. Swaha for The Lord of The Goddess. Swaha for Tibra Pusha Dev. Swaha for pusha dev in various forms. Swaha for Vishnu. Swaha for Bhupati Dev. For Lord Vishnu in everyone's mind. (20)
Those who see the purodash being cooked in the vessel, those who clean the vessel completely, keep the charu, etc., which prevent heat, etc., please wear this yajna. (36)
 O Mon! You are worthy of worship. You bow down to the holy streams in our Yajnatirtha. Just as ripe fruits are obtained from trees, please give us thousands of money to destroy enemies. 
The gods detailed the physical yajna through mental yajna, from which the religions that possess all the vices were the first to arise. The heaven in which there are ancient sages and gods, the worshipers receive great men. 
The body of the leaders who use the best tips for the giver of Havi is their body. The implication is that no other is the same as them. (10)
We call upon that supreme power to protect ourselves, which stabilized this world, the power that is going to subjugate all. May Pusha Dev please increase our knowledge and intelligence. We call upon Param Shakti and Pusha Dev for our welfare. (18)
Hey Ritvijo! For the welfare of me, the son of Ushij, call the eaters of sacrificial food, the devotees of the sacrificial grain, the worthy of sompankarta and praise, to the world-litanic Ushakaal. Praise the fire, the grandson of water. Also praise the motherly ahorat gods of people like me. 
O characters of Mon and Someras! We call upon you to get energy. You expand the intellect of Brahmins. You establish the energetic juice well for the hosts. We establish both of you in the upyam character for Indra Dev. You are the vagina of Indra Dev. Both of you are the desired of Indra Dev. May both of you be united and give us welfare and happiness. Please both of you to stay separate and remove us from sins. (4)
He is a wishy Mon! Just as the bull goes into a group of cows, so you stay in space and roar and come to Dronakalash. You become extremely intoxicating and leave for Indra. Protected by you, let us be victorious in the war. 
These somas sit like hawk birds in human species. Just like a man goes quietly to his beloved, so does Som. 
The doors of the goddess are blessed, very shaped and wing-shaped. They make sublime sounds when opening and closing. Be happy to go when opened by sages, satis and poets. (5)
Water is the root cause of the growth of trees whose father is the sky and mother is the earth. Protect you as trees as they divine herbs for the benefit of the Son. (6)
May Indra Dev come to us wherever he is far or near. He is fierce, strong, energetic, powerful. They have strong arms like thunderbolts. They are going to kill enemies in wars. (48)
O brother! Come your mind back from the face of the agent. Come to perform this yajna work and to show strength. Let your mind come to live and see the sun quickly. 
The dadhi mixed rice sacrifice that the devas make a means of making vajra, the weapon of which is not inequality. Indra, who killed the vritra asura with the thunderbolt generated by that sacrifice, should kill this enemy army. (27)
Hey Ritvijo! Sing for the dripping Somras, willing to go to the gods' face to perform the yajna. 
The sun scatters its rays together and manifests itself and makes the constellations of the sky bright. Oh, Usha! When you and the sun shine, we meet the grain. 
O agni! You equip this man with life and eyes and fill his body with force. You are the knower of nectar. It should not depart from this world and the crematorium should not become its home. (14)
O agni of adornment! It is they who build an altar for your yajna, offer you a sacrifice, squeeze the somras on a bright day and conquer vast wealth by force, who desire you. 
This yajna, which pervades all four directions, is able to give fruits and increases, fulfills all our desires. This white-footed sheep, which fulfills the resolutions, is being given in this yagna. It will not diminish but will increase according to our wishes. (2)
O special speed agni! People with a good will always pray to you for messengers. The days of the one on whose beddings you sit with the gods become adornment. 
O Indra. You defeat all enemies in the wars. O enemie stopper, Indra! You are the datya destroyer , the creator of the enemies of the asuras, and dangerous to all the enemies. 
Seeing the light above the darkness of the night, we go closer to the sun with more light in all the gods. The sun is the best light. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Don't take thousands of cows and horses away from us. Your defenses stay with us. 
Walk towards the Anandadaini Air Cows. Sing, eat the strength-giving grass and drink more water. O Indra! Protect the cows with feet and food. 
Hundreds of arteries related to the heart, thousands of veins and their intermediate blood vessels should stop bleeding under the influence of this mantra. Keep the remaining veins running as undone. (3)
 O Goddess! You sanctify heaven and earth. You are prakashvati. You follow the practices of yajna. 
O Saraswati! You save us and defeat us by being equipped with the dead and suppressing the enemies. Indra killed the king of the sandas. They considered themselves to be brave and began to compete with Indra. 
Hey friend and Varun! The man who commits enmity with you by not sacrificing you or increases enmity with you by not squeezing somras for you, that foolish man himself possesses the disease of tuberculosis in his heart. The person who is going to perform the yajna and squeezes the somras while reciting praise, attains the skilled assh. 
O Indra, who performs a hundred yajnas! Just as the wheels move forward as the car moves around on their own, so do we give money to those who praise them as they wish. 
Know that as the mighty wind blowing everywhere rests always in the sky, likewise all living beings rest always in me.
It is the agni that saves its igniter from violent and great sin and the heroes of shobhanjanam serve. 
Ashwini, Saraswati and Indra Dev exploited both heaven and earth with virat yagya. Exploited your wishes from all directions. (60)
This is Indra who dances to all! Your force cannot be suppressed by enemies. O Indra called by many! The money you give to the husband's host is not destroyed by the enemies. 
Hey Mon! You should come near the yajna of the great gods with food. You give us strength and grain. 
O Vayu Dev! Use your power to grieve others against those who hate us or those we hate. (4)
This medicine composed by Jupiter has been confirmed by the Vishwa Devas. We combine it with the fast that has entered the cows. (54)
O fruitful, Sathirattu, Indra, possessed of the maruts and called by many! You come to this yagna and drink somras. 
O Maruto! Your strength is adorned everywhere and your mind is angry. The velocity of enemy defeators and powerful deserts makes many kinds of words similar to that of stota. 
O very semen-boosting herb! Just as the mongoose cuts the snake into pieces and reconnects them, in the same way, remove the work that has come in me due to the alienation of the woman and reunite me with my wife. (5)
Yama is the overswami of the ancestors. May he help me in this Vedokta Paurohitya karma of mine, in prestige, in godly deeds in resolve and in the form of blessings. (14)
O conscience! Just as a person desirous of food prays, so praise the agni, the one of the most glorious and the giver of fruit. 
Prajapati knows Virat's Gemini. They are also the ones who know the realities and kalpas. Prajapati knows the sequence of this, how many they are and he knows the number of places it has. (10)
O Yagyapatras, you give the host a son who impures enemies and is made by a god named Vibhu. O Maruto! The Son who receives from you may be an enemy with self-force, a man who raises his hand on enemies, the master of countless wonders, and the one with the power of adornment. 
It was! Raise up the unsupportant, fruitful, sweet-spoken and praiseworthy Jupiter with mantras. The man and god who recite mantras called Gatha recite praises to Jupiter while being praised and praised. 
The king who considers himself fierce and kills the Brahmin and the state in which the Brahmin remains unhappy, both the king and the nation are finished. (6)
Hear now, O Arjun, of the distinctions of intellect and determination, according to the three modes of material nature, as I describe them in detail.
O Indra! You have given happiness to the ancient stoetas in the same way that water pleases the thirsty person. That is why we praise you again and again that we may gain food, strength, and long life. 
Sarma said, "A group of Angiragotriya Ayasya Rishis and Navgu rishis will come here. They will take this godhan to the department. At that time you have to give up this proud promise." 
O you who are sad! Just as you were the praiseworthy of Tugrah in ancient times, so you were also praised later. You brought the submerged Bhuju with the army into the more watery sea by moving boats and fast-moving horses. 
We pray for the great agni through sukta-like words for the sake of grace on the majority of the people who wish for the gods. Other sages also praise this agni. 
I make mother earth a happy and stable stone-like foundation for the child. Stand on it and feel the joy. You be the best fast one. May Savita give you a long life. (47)
Aschinikumaro! Be elevated to me who wish for the yajna and add horses to the chariot to come to the yajna. May your defense be near us. 
When praised, the friend God puts all the people in farming etc. They hold both the earth and the sky and see well those who perform the sacrificial work. Do the havan for the ghee mixed havan friend. 
We should be free from the evil consequences of the nightmares we see in the waking state and the nightmares we see while sleeping, and from the past resolutions of moneylessness, from the good things that are not obtained, and from the destructive loops that do not leave. (10)
O agni! You are a Havi carrier. You are going to increase the satyamaya yajna. Please send havi to the gods and ancestors. (65)
Just as rural animals like cows, buffaloes, etc. stay away from forest animals and water thirsty people, in the same way, I keep this brahmachari away from the sins causing disease etc. and tuberculosis and with eternal life. (3)
O Indra! At that time you completely subdued the asuras named Das, Shushna and Kuyava to protect the son of Arjuni and gave their wealth to Kuts. (2)
This substance has been drunk by Agni, Indra and Vishwe Devas. O burn! Praise Varuna like the son of Sanshishwari. (8)
O Indra! You destroyed and corrupted a hundred invincible cities of Sambar Asura. O Indra bought by the wise and unscrupulous Somers! You wisely gave wealth to Divodas who squeezed the Somras and gave the properties to Bharadwaj, who had praised him. 
 Even in the crowd, just as calves go to their mother cows, Som goes to the shelters. Just as the cows know their enclosures, they know their place to go. 
Oh, God! You, along with other agnis, make those agni gods, illuminated and over-the-ageing, the messengers of the gods in the yagnas, who are more stable in human beings, sacrificial, fast-natured, with abrasive food and purifier. 
O God! You are in our hearts and minds. You are in paradise. O sun! We worship for you. You take our yajna to heights. You take it to the divine land for the gods. (19)
 O ritvijo 
 O Usha! You are the daughter of heaven. You appeared for Sueeth, son of Shuchadratha, by driving away the darkness. Just as you did to Sunith, you should do the same to Satyashrava, the son of Vastay. 
Just as carpenters make chariots, we compose hymns for the kamvarshi and nitya tarun Indra. We will behave in such a way that we maintain friendship with Indra and the bright and body-possessing Indra will be the protector of us. 
Ignorant I ask scholars and the wise, is the unborn the one who has pillared the six rajoguni elements the same? I am in doubt. And I want to remove my doubts from those without doubt. (7)
The former men, who performed the nine-month-long yagna, the wise, our sapta angira, etc., praised Indra, the one who oppressed the invading enemies, the one who oppressed the invading enemies, the one with motionless, untractioned command and indra, who was on the mountains, as the lord of food. 
O burn! You are friends and part of Varun. You bear the semen of the waters and the divine glory in us. You should establish the glory of Prajapati in us for the welfare of the people. (11)
O somers squeezers! Squeeze the somras for indra's drink and provide the loan for us. 
This cow of Brahmins is a weapon while stealing and after stealing, it is going to weaken the stealer. (2)
O agni! You have a good mind towards us. You guide and preach well for us. You alone can win thousands. You are a money giver. Swaha for you. (28)
 O Indra! You are going to be a guest in the yagna. You drink someras, please protect our cows. You plough a horse called Hari in a chariot. You are a vajra-wearing, beautiful, selfish and golden chariot. 
Indra gives money for the host in the yagna while being pleased with his friends maruts. Indra ended the maya of the asuras for the sake of the hosts, destroyed the rain and the darkness. 
Hey Ritvijo! The money lenders want to drink somras from the pot of the skin with the fire seasons. Go to your place after you perform the yajna. 
With whose glory the sky has expanded and the earth has expanded, with whose glory space i.e. the central part of the sky and the earth has expanded and the sun that is visible in the sky has expanded, we worship that Prajapati by eve. (4)
O Mon! You have been accepted for friend and Barun Dev. You have been accepted for long life as a friend and Varun Dev. O Mon! Indra dev has received you. We have received you for Indra Dev and Agni. You have been accepted for Varun Dev. O Mon! Jupiter has been eclipsed for you. O Mon! You have been accepted for Vishnu. (23)
O great Mon! In the yajna, at the time when the streams of godgadh cover you, the great water that flows comes towards you. 
May these truths protect me in all respects, on whose support the heavens and the days are located, all beings whose dependents are, under whose influence the animal group moves, water flows, and the sun always rises. 
O agni of long life and calling upon the gods! The large number of very wide and widespread flames everywhere behave like a bull of your great, all-encroaching, multi-colored, and workman. O host! In this yajnakarma, the most pleasing and knowledgeable, you also call the earth and the sky along with the worshipable gods. 
As soon as agni was born, he illuminated the earth and the sky and became the admirable son of his parents. The human-carrying, the one who gives food to the host, the inferior and the impactful agni is revered as human beings worship the guest. 
May the worshipers who please the world complete our deeds. Mon, the lord of wealth, give us wealth. Let the protestless Aditi Devi protect us. Having received the best son and grandson, we will speak many praises in this yajna. 
The horses that are walking around and connected in the chariot with shobhan wheels should sit on the chariot and bring Indra in front of us. Do not dry the nectar-like somras-like havi with air. 
O Sacrificial God! We perform yajna with our heart. Swaha for them. Space, heaven, heaven for earth. We offer sacrifices to the air at the beginning of the yajna. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! You come from heaven to earth by your chariot made of gold. The agni worshiper cannot stop you. I praise you. (5)
No one knows their births, they know their births among themselves. 
All the gems etc. in the sea are received by the Sun God. The sun's path from east to west is vast. (14)
With my mantra force, I inspire the flora, the herbs made of vegetation, the trees, the human beings with two steps, so that they can destroy the enemy army. (14)
O aschinikumaro! When the yajna-doers meet in the countless jaishil man's struggle to get wealth, your chariot appears on the best earth. You bring money for the hymn on the same chariot. 
Brahma has built this school and scholars have helped in measuring this construction. While sitting in the place of drinking Someras, Indra and Agni Dev should protect this school. (19)
In both the places, the great power of the revered Indra holds the Dyava-Prithvivi. Indra by his power holds the fast-moving clouds and flowing waters. 
If we have committed any sin during the day, if we have committed any sin at night, then the wind will free us from all the sins committed by us. May Vayu bless us from all such sins. (15)
The fires that are dwijamas, they hold the yajna with the desire to attain the sacrifice and all the best wealth. The person who gives a vow for this fire becomes the one with the best son. 
 O Indra! You are going to give a lot of money. Yamraj, who squeezes somers, praises you. The hosts who cook purodash praise you. You give us our desired money. We get a lot of money by getting power from you. 
The gods appointed Pashupati, who threw arrows from the west corner, as the ritualist. (6)
Those who donate stota and para cow, they go to heaven like the sun. (5)
Apart from the five senses (eyes, ears, nose, tongue and skin), the mind is the sixth sense. They are located in my heart and the conscious soul controls them. Gross work is done by them. Through these, we get peace. (5)
O Indra! This earth carefully protects your thunderbolt. This is also the protector of the sea. The stopping tree has been shattered by the waters. O Indra! You are the master of the earth through your force. (7)
 O goo! You go towards the yajna place. You should provide milk etc. for religious yajna disciplines. Both your ears are adorned with gold. 
O agni! Bharata had praised you together with the ritvijas to get happiness and had made you use the sacrificial agni through the havanas. 
O the best medicine! I should also be the head of my husband's chief ladies. Get my son-in-law lower than the following. 
Warriors, enemiesless, war-doers, quarrels, knights, defeaters of many people, indra, undefeated by nature and has the best power, hinders the path of the enemy army and kills the one who curses. 
Demons and vampires cannot defeat this man tied to gold, because it is the first born oz of gods. The one who binds this gold related to daksha sons attains the age of a hundred years among the creatures. (2)
O Indra! You hold bright milk in black and red colored cows. 
Just as Someras is dear to enemies in the third sawan, so let the swamis wear glory in me. (13)
O all the seers and seers, Mon! The edges you make are made at this time shining like the sun rays. 
On saying that O Swami! Where will you stay? The Devayan route opens. (3)
The young Indra, who has a friend, the sages together go well to the agni and lay the kusha. 
 O Mon! You are squeezed for force and wish fulfillment. You make us successful. You destroy all our enemies. 
O God of skin! You have attained the form of welfare, so you have been the helpers of us, the British sages. O agni with riches and ornaments! Take the part of the gods to them, wishing and knowing that you wish for the divine. 
Alas! How strange it is that we have set our mind to perform this great sin. Driven by the desire for kingly pleasures, we are intent on killing our own kinsmen. It will be better if, with weapons in hand, the sons of Dhritarashtra kill me unarmed and unresisting on the battlefield.
 O Indra! You are a knight. You provide an opportunity to the knights to show their valour in battles. You remain steadfast in those wars. That is why your mind is worthy of worship. 
Reside in the midst of the famous Indra and Agni Sangrams. O revolutionary leaders! When asked by the poets, you explain the yajnakarma performed by the host who wants to be friendly. May Indra and Agni destroy all enemies. 
I have taken many forms and traveled among human beings. I've been among people at night for four years. I have been satiated once a day after drinking ghee and have been walking around." 
Born of the sun and enjoying the glory of the world under their protection, let us possess the glory and wealth for our future generations, (41)
The pregnant woman should wear two grains of mustard containing the appropriation of the home, so that her desired children, sons, etc. are not destroyed. This pregnant woman! Protect both white and yellow mustard as a highly powerful medicine to your womb. Mustard should be kept in the dress worn in the waist or in the end of the odhani. (20)
If the Agar Kshatriya does not return the Brahmin's cow, then it makes the Kshatriya homeless and childless. The Kshatriya who steals the Brahmin's cow is destroyed by suffering from apara disease. (7)
Resolve became his messenger and all beings were going to sit with him. (10)
O agni! We choose you to call upon the gods through the praises we have made for the completion of the kush-bidden yajna. You are the one who sleeps in the herbs, the holy radiant and the greatest. 
O kamvarshi Indra and Varun! Drink the most sweet, wishful and uplifting mon. We put this somrup grain in the same containers for you. Be happy with sompan sitting on these kushas. 
O agni of light! Manu founded you for the welfare of all jatis. O God of agni! You have been born for the sake of the yajna and attained satisfaction with the human being and gave light to the kanva. Human beings greet you. 
O rich and glorious agni! We get many types of property from you. O beloved agni! We get a lot of money from you. 
 O Indra! You are going to kill an asura named Vritra. There is no one better than you in Indralok. There is no other as great as you. 
O agni! Come to this yagna and sit as the instigator of the gods. Demons can't do you violence, so you become our leading leader. You must be protected by all the heavens and the earth and worship the gods by havi to please them. 
O richeshakes! Praise agni for your protection. May the agnis living in the house of hosts for the sake of agnihotra fulfill our desire. May the sons of the sages and the righteous agni protect us from our enemies. 
Rudraputra has grown into clouds with harps and red ornaments that make up the word Marudgana. They take on a cheerfully fine form by raining more water from the clouds by rapid and omnipresent force. 
O Maruto! We call you at night, in the day and at the beginning of the yagna to protect you. 
O serviceable agni! Give us delightful wealth. O agni with visible light! You spread all over the place like air. God of agni! You become the giver of vast sacrificial means and sufficient wealth like a friend. 
Oh, God! When you were in this water knowing yourself, you began to dance. It caused a lot of dust. 
O thunderbolt Indra! Before you, we had hoped to get dhanadi from other gods. O Rich Indra! You fulfill our hopes with defense. 
This medicine of Jupiter has been confirmed by the Vishwe Devas. We mix it with the fast of cows. (53)
Let our arms and senses be strong. Both our hands should be powerful. Let our mind and heart be aligned with Kshatriya(warrior) dharma. (7)
Indra, who is in the sky, receives the water spread far and wide in the same way that the ocean absorbs the vast amount of water. Indra runs like a bull to drink somers and he wants to admire his warriors from time immemorial. 
The Kshatriya who takes away the Brahmin's cow, it is said about him whether this is his house. (4)
O sun! You know all the things here while living in the hereafter or in this world. You see all the creatures here and there and all the creatures see the sun in the sky from this world. (39)
O man! The bad symptoms of your own body, hair and eyes, we destroy all those bad symptoms with the speech of mantras. May Savita Dev inspire you for welfare. (3)
Hey Mon! You give money of thousands of numbers, containing cows, with horses, pleasing to many and desirable by many. 
Anand, Mod, Pramod, the present mod in front i.e. greeting, laughter, words, form, touch etc. and dance etc. entered this body. (24)
O aschinikumaro! You come here with horses with a bright look. O you of the golden chariot, the lord of the water and ashwinikumaro who increases the yagna! Drink the somras. 
It pleases me. (10)
Keep the cooked meat of this goat's waist in the west direction and the meat of its left part in the north direction. Place the back meat in the upward direction and the stomach meat in the downward direction. Set the intermediate flesh of this body in the sky. (8)
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You are skilled, water-clad, poet and live in many places. You make us capable. 
We take care of the powerful food cleaned by the gods and give it to the Brahmin wife and worship the highly glorious God. (11)
Oh my friend and Varun! The enemy who is not happy even when asked well and who does not rejoice in repeated calls and conversations, save us from war with him today. Save us from his arms. 
O scholar Ashwinikumaro! Come near to My psalms of service, and deliver us from darkness, just like Atri. Hey leaders! Save us from the war that hurts us. 
Those who know God through sama mantras finally entered the nectar of Gayatri form. Where did that unborn appear i.e. nowhere. (41)
O agni! You are an astrologer. Please leave here in this form. We worship you with welfare praises. These big flames of yours shine like the sun. Do not do violence against your children with these flames. (32)
O Mother Earth! Give me a wonderful reputation. O wish! Give me heaven in Lakshmi and Vibhuti. (63)
I call upon the gods with more food, the doer of Adityatej, the best of knowledge, the indrapramukh, the unpaired and the ones inspired by the yagna, so that my yajna can end without interruptions. 
Seven verses and four answers i.e. Vedas are interrelated. These two types of seven are located in each other. How are the Stoms located in them and how are they contained in the psalms? (19)
 O worshiper! Indra is a Greater, a scholar and a Brahmin. Sing praises to them. They are happy to hear those eulogies. 
Soma increases the importance of Indra and other gods. The hosts who perform somayagya flow them rapidly in the kalash and are illuminated in heaven. 
O deserters! You give your godly host the happiness related to you in the three realms of the earth, etc. O workman Maruto! Give us money including the putradi shobhan heroes. 
 Som fulfills the wish. They are green and our great friends. They are illuminated like the sun. They do words while squeezing. 
Hey Mon! Through your actions and protections, bring us closer to the sun and give us goodness. 
Wherever there is Shree Krishna, the Lord of all Yog, and wherever there is Arjun, the supreme archer, there will also certainly be unending opulence, victory, prosperity, and righteousness. Of this, I am certain.
Friends, the arrogant god of the day, that is, the sun and the arrogant god of the night, Varuna, should give me clothes etc. Aditya Dev should increase all of us and make our enemies angry. May Indra give me the strength of the arms and Savita make me a long life. (12)
The giver of all welfare, Savita, the motivator of the kamon and Prajapati, the protector of the Vedas, the creator of agni, forms, the comprehensive god Vishnu - all of them should accept our havi and give money for the host who performs the yajna. (4)
O men! The sun, which shapes the substances hidden in darkness with its light and gives knowledge to the ignorant, has risen with its rays. You see these. (6)
 O Mon! You are going to give special intelligence. Someras mixed with water filled in a clean vessel gives a lot of pleasure and food. Many people sing the virtues of this. 
The Supreme Lord said: I am mighty Time, the source of destruction that comes forth to annihilate the worlds. Even without your participation, the warriors arrayed in the opposing army shall cease to exist.
O Indra! When called by the hotas you come to drink the somras by the called two, four, six, eight or ten Hari. O Shobhan, the rich Indra! This mon is presented for you, don't destroy it. 
This is the earth! You both wear a moving, a protector of many enemies, protecting all the people, a beautical, a radiant, a fast-moving, and a king-like brave. 
The man with whom the agni of Kravyad stays and gives heat, that man gets a lot of agony. Along with essential commodities, he has to repeatedly say humble promises. (38)
I am the generating seed of all living beings, O Arjun. No creature moving or non-moving can exist without me.
This pavak! Those who give you prayers come to your refuge and serve you with the desire that their fate may be given to the gods, you protect them. 
O Indra, who fulfills desires! We praise you in front of you while wishing you. Wish you also our psalms. (4)
O agni! By consuming, you get to your original place earth. You meet with water and get astrologer again. You enter your House again. (38)
O God of Agni! From the sky to earth to space, from the vegetation, from the medicines and where you are especially complete, come here to please us from there. (1)
My stothas are the protectors of all and givers of food and enjoyments. People praise Me in two ways for finding cows and finding friendship. When I take the armament in wars for the victory of my stotha, I make it worthy of praise and praise. 
There are two types of pitras. Berishad and Agnishvata. In this mantra, agnishvatta pitras have been addressed. O Pyro of agni! Come to this yajna. Get the place we have fixed for father, grandfather and father etc. Eat the hives that have been purified on the Kushas, those charu, purodash etc. May you provide us with wealth containing all the heroes. (44)
The cloud had soaked the horses of both of you with its water. Your radiant horses walk as fast as birds. Your chariot is well known on which you brought the daughter of the sun by sitting. 
O Indra! You have illuminated your power by removing the huge and violent circle from space. At that time all the agnis, the Somras, which pleased the sun and Indra, were illuminated. 
Oh my god! You yourself are shining. You are a north direction format. Marudgans are dikupalaks. Som is the ruler. Som is a rival. Ekvinsh Stome establish you on earth. May the incomprehensible storm establish you on earth. Vairaj Sam Stom may you be revered on earth. First, let the sages spread the best divine qualities in the entire divine world. The desired performers and these heads undoubtedly place the host in the higher heavens. The boss should also give you an extension. In this way, they should take all the basu and other god priests to heaven with one thought. (13)
O darbhamani! Pierce my enemies and those who gather army against me. You pierce all those who have ill-will towards Me and those who hate Me. (7)
O chariot with money! Expand my lineage. Ashwinikumar takes the sukhkari chariot to the place of the somping place of the stotas. 
O man! This gem made from the varan tree will protect you from the fear of a sinful dream, from the antelope running towards the desired direction, from the sneeze and from the bad omens related to the crow etc. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! Drink the somras containing sweet juice and come to our house. Your very wealthy chariot comes again and again in the pure house of the host who squeezes the mon. 
O Lord who sees all! Your wide rays illuminate all the radiances. O broad Mon! You are nished as streams of juices and adorned as masters of the gross bhuvana. 
O leader Indra and Agni! Don't subject us to inferiority, defeat and condemnation. 
Hey Aditya! Let this trap and evil go away from us by not doing our violence. 
O Anjan! You remove tuberculosis from the body of a man whose body enters all the organs and joints of the organs, just as the powerful air takes away the water of the clouds in a moment. (4)
O ghost! With the organs of the senses, you wear the sin-relieving armor of agni. Do not drop this agni here and there, wishing to consume you more from the gross fat present within you. (58)
O woman! I kidnap the sharpness of your vagina and thighs. O woman! I kidnap the meditative tej of the sadhu man with your healthy mind. I kidnap tej who pleases everyone with your mouth. What more, I kidnap the good fortune tej from all your organs. (1)
We praise the same rich god, Indra, who gave us great wealth worthy of worship and protected the praise of the Stota. O Indra! You always protect us with welfare means. 
Inspired by the Baj bird Agne, he brought the great, the microscope and not less the greater Soma to the yajna. When the Aryan hosts pray for that visible and agni that is worthy of the calling of the gods, they begin the yajna kriya. 
O Indra! You protect the host, the leader of the yajnakarma, and save him from the near and distant enemies. You protect the host at home and in the forest. May we be happy for a hundred years to be a child. 
 Usha is the mother of rashmis. Those rashmis are amazing and bright. She is a friend of Ashwinikumars. 
O Varuna! The soul who has come into the body to spread his fame like a golden, suffering for the practice of dharma for you, gives him immortality and the people give them clothes. (3)
Those who kill half-born children like demons, vampires, etc. and who take the form of women and sleep near the mother. Remove those demons, vampires, etc. who obstruct women in such a way that the air removes the clouds. (19)
The Sun God rises in the east direction, destroying the demons, vampires, etc. who make a nuisance towards us. Aditya, the hanta of demons etc. seen by all beings and invisible by us, rises from Udayachal mountain. (1)
Friends, Arayama and Varuna, dressed up by Dashapavittra, drink the som, who is located in three characters and is born admirable. 
O medicine! Your mother is as black as you. Your father Akash is as blue as you. O medicine called Neel! You make the substance that comes in contact with you the same color as you. Therefore, make this organ contaminated with leprosy black with its same color. (3)
O Indra! Which intoxication makes you the happiest? O mighty Indra! On hearing our praises, you walk towards the gate of the yajnashala. When will I receive the best vehicle by your praise and when will I be able to draw wealth towards me with the grains? 
O sons and grandsons of the deceased! You stay in life while holding on to old age. You keep doing the work diligently in order i.e. from big to small, i.e. small after big. May the brave-born Tvashta Dev who is working with you make your life long. 
O Indra! The hindering monsters can't destroy hundreds of your properties. They can't even stop your enemy force. 
I saw the smoke from the dried dung near me. After the smoke spread around, I saw the fire caused by it. Ritwija prepares the white colored somras. This has been his deed since time immemorial. 
Barley is in milk and yogurt form. We want to see and offer these forms related to Anna Som completely. (23)
Thieves who are not good-minded should move away from this place. The torsions of the gods should move away from this place. This is the people of us sons of Gods. May Yama Dev be pleased to provide this wonderful place for us expressed in day and night. (1)
The deserts were first human beings and later became gods by virtue. They wear jewellery for their splendor. They can't be defeated by many armies. These deserts, the sons of heaven, are no longer visible, and aditi's sons do not grow these invading deserts. 
O the great agni in the Angiras! You consume our vows in order and complete our yajnas according to the seasons. 
O Indra! Give to those with wealth and for us a house made of three metals, protecting from three sufferings, without destruction and a shadow. Take the weapons of the enemies away from us. 
Drive this kidnapper out of air space and earth, and let the agni devour it. (11)
O Rudra Dev! You are the controller of innumerable people. Thousands of you are installed on the land. Please keep your bows thousands of yojanas (one unit of distance indicator) away from us. (54)
O ghost! The tree under which you sit, let not disturb you. The earth you take shelter in should not cause you pain. You go to the place of yama's subjects and get growth. (25)
O Dhanaswami Indra! Why do people call you the favor of the Psalms? I have heard you giver, so you give money and endow the hymn. Oh, Shakr! Let my intellect be proficient in yajnakarma and make my destiny a recipient of wealth. 
The guest scholar orders, only then do havan. If he does not give orders, do not perform havan. (3)
The subjects of fever, sannipat and snake, which survive hard, are under the control of Anjan Mani like three slaves. That is, Anjanmani removes their disorder. The oldest trichiad in the mountains is your father. (8)
The night of praiseworthy, youth and superior mind by all is the inspiring savita of all and the wife of God. It despises the eyes and senses in its subject. This good havan-able and completes the earth with its importance. (1)
 O Indra! O agni! You are the best god, the sustainer of the Aryans, the remover of all hatreds and the satpati. You are going to remove enemies. 
O Indra! You don't accept only a rich person for your friendship, what is the reason for that? Such people drink alcohol and oppose you. When you give property to your stotha, he calls you as if someone calls upon his Father. 
May we be under the benevolent grace of Indra, who takes part of the Yagya. May savior and rich Indra, separate our near and distant enemies from us. 
We pray to Indra Dev because he gives us wealth from earth, sky or air. 
Accept our hymns. Be willing to give us money with sufficient intelligence. 
Oh, God! May we receive the happiness that is edited by your mind. We make hymns for fast-moving gods. The money that Savita, the lord of gems, will send to us today, we will be partakers of the same wealth. 
May my urus be energized, thighs should have velocity and have the power to walk at the feet. May my soul be non-violent and may all my organs be sinless. (2)
Those who do it get up after attaining immortality from the water showered by Parjanya Dev. O brahmachari! I separate you from sins caused by diseases etc. and combine you with eternal life. (11)
Just as the water flows downwards on its own, Indra comes close to the pure Somras of hundreds and the ashir mixed someras of thousands. 
May the devasutiform part of the yagnas protect us. We know him. The sun comes in each morning clarifying all the objects. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
Indra, holding a thunderbolt in his hand, adds thousands and hundreds of horses under his control to the yoke of the chariot and approaches the host who pleads for protection, who makes bright and happy praises. 
O Somdev! Let us put our mind into your work and body and be children and engage in your work. 
O Indra, who subjugates the riches! You also kill those who have hundreds of means. We ask you for the money that is rich in cows. (16)
This Vishnu especially travels everywhere (i.e. is omnipresent). Vishnu wears three legs in three ways, that is, all the worlds are absorbed in his three legs. People are absorbed in their charanraj. Swaha for Vishnu. (15)
The agni replied, "Who saw me?" Which god is he who saw my diverse bodies? Hey friend and Varun! Where is the body of my agni and the divine means of agni? Tell me that." 
The termite that makes the banamy uproots the disease preventive herb from the water body located under the earth. She is a medicine for diseases like diarrhea etc. and is going to calm them down. (4)
 The whole man is the root conscious and wider than the whole earth. He is the master of immortality. He is also the master of animals growing from food. 
O satyarupa, aschinikumaro with full of desire and charitable wealth! Just as you used to come to give great wealth to my father King Sushama, so you come with your protective means. 
O aschinikumaro! Both of you with the same mind went to the people of the sage Jallu with strength, wealth, children and beautifully powerful food. He offered you all the three parts of the daily yagna with the havya grains. 
O Savita Dev! You are highly acclaimed, welfare and annadata. Please come to our place in the yagna place. You are the sustainer of the young world. Please satisfy all of us with your intellect. (34)
Indra installed the sun in the sky to give light for a long time. Indra, the sun-like, has penetrated the clouds with his rays. (6)
Inspired by the early Mon inductors, they thus cross the dasapavitra made of Aries' hair, just as war-driven horses run. 
They agni we provide soothing houses for the havyadatas. Let the earth, the heavens, and the fine wealth of heaven come to us from the agni. 
This prana dev is the one who kills death and this is the fever that makes life painful. In the middle of the body, the gods worship these present pranas. (11)
Take the all-rich fire that the Bhriguvanshi hosts have established for the purpose of the strength of all beings, take those fires to your home and praise it. He is the fire chief and is the master of all wealth like Varuna. 
 O Indra! May our praises bring you laurels. Our praises are of great knowledge. The wise and bright host praises you. 
The horses named Harit, praised by the good, strange people of the sun and greeted by us respectively, appear on top of the sky and soon revolve around the earth and the sky. 
Know that prakṛiti (material nature) and puruṣh (the individual souls) are both beginningless. Also know that all transformations of the body and the three modes of nature are produced by material energy.
For if I did not carefully perform the prescribed duties, O Parth, all men would follow my path in all respects.
The Agni dev immediately bestows wealth to such people who know the agni present in the Yajna, are the bearers of truth and offer praises for the purpose of Agni. 
O conch! You are present in front of the constellations that are illuminated and are born on the upper part of the ocean. We defeat demons and vampires through you. (2)
O Indra! We praise you with a hymn related to you, wishing for you like Maharishi Sakha of Kanva gotra. (1)
My enemy in the distance, who thinks of doing the action he thinks of killing me and the action he says to do with the word, through the right substance and mantra for him by witchcraft, the sin god should destroy that karma together with death before it is successful. (1)
May Barun, Agni and Prajapati give us wisdom. Indra Dev holds wisdom. May they give us wisdom. For all these gods. (15)
Maharishi Atharva considered himself to be Indra and said that both the sinless Matar and Imhvari sisters increase the strength by pleasing it. (12)
We offer this speechless and ghee-filled sacrifice to the Aditya Ganas. We offer sacrifices from Juhu of wisdom (a yagyapatra made of palash wood) to the Aditya Ganas. Aditya Dev is a chirping publisher. Mitra Dev, Aryama Dev, Bhag Dev, Varun Dev, Daksha Dev please listen to our special praise. (54)
Kaal created subjects. Kaal created Prajapati at the beginning of creation. Since time immemorial, Swayambhu Brahma and Kashyap Rishi were born. Tej also originated from time. (10)
Oh the most delicious pitha! The people who pray to you enjoy you. It is by your grace that they donate to you. The people who enjoy your juice walk with their necks high. 
A brave son was born in the cruel and sin constellation like a tiger. This son born in the evil constellation becomes the best power as soon as he is born. This son should not grow up and kill the father and do not do violence to the mother who gave birth. (3)
O Savita! The way the sage Hiranystup, my father and son of Angira, used to call you to the yagna and the way the host is alert to protect Somlata. I am also equally careful for your service while worshiping you for the sake of protection. 
O Maruto! You give us cows, horses, chariots, fine offspring and gold-rich food. O Rudraputra Maruto! Make us rich. We get your best defense. 
Man is everywhere. (17)
Indra, whose bright, beautiful grass-seeking and repeatedly tasted grass, wanders between the earth and the sky, Indra offered the Travash king for Srinjaya and subjugated the sons of Varshikh for the welfare of Abhyavathi, the king of the Devavak dynasty. 
O wind! You are the protector of purity. You are the basis of thousands of qualities. We make you happy with Somers. You have drunk this drink before. We wear this drink for air. (7)
O king! The kingdom of you reclaimed you. For this reason, you should become famous again with glory and become a democrat and enemy destroyer. God of all directions and the people living in him should accept you as their master. All residents of your state serve you and greet you. (1)
O Indra! O agni! We host invite you two gods to the yagna. We offer sacrifices to both of you. We worship you. You make us intoxicated with food grains. You are the giver of food and wealth. We invite both of you to the yagna to get food and money. (13)
Then it follows. (18)
O complete ghata from the bones! I lift up the earth above you. I put stones on you, so that the dust may not fall and destroy you. Let the fathers hold on to this peg of yours, which I have buried and bound you. Yum accept your place here. 
We believe that the knowledge given by the praiseworthy agni is true. Let our food offerings be for the devouring of this agne. When the terrible flames of agni attain immortality, at the same time our rituals give them a greeting. 
I was in the forest at the time parawat gave these horses that were driving the wheels of the chariot. 
O agni! Give us thousands of kinds of non-decaying wealth with sons and grandsons, nourishing, with a lot of glory and abilities. 
I have received the same gem with wheat, barley and great vibhuti, which Jupiter had tied in the hands of the gods, which destroyed the asuras. (24)
O Haridra! A medicine called turmeric! You were born at night. That is why you are able to remove the whiteness of the body. O medicine called Bhringraj (Bhagara)! A medicine called Indravaruni that turns the color black! And a medicine called Indigo that describes asit! You paint this organ with distorted color due to leprosy in its own color. Color the hair that has become white due to old age in its color. (1)
O agni! For the man who serves you, you establish yourself in a good and permanent position to provide food. Give happiness and food to the wise man who is very eager to receive the host, man and animals. 
O agni with hearing ears! Listen to our praise. Friends, Aryama and other gods who go to Devyagna in the morning, sit on the kushas laid down for the sake of yajna along with the other havanvahi devas who come with you. 
The creators of all, the great, the divine and the worthy of yajna, attain the devas with the birth of the earth. These dyava-prithvivis protect the gods and human beings by various means and rain water with the paternal gods. 
O Indra! You are our father and mother. That is why we beg you for happiness. (2)
It brings the giver to the third heaven and the three-page heaven. The Panchaudan given for Brahma becomes the milk-giving and many forms of dhenu given to the host as per his wish. (10)
At the place of yajna where all the gods are pleased, all of us hosts are gathered at the same place. With the mantras of Rigveda and Samaveda, we go beyond the yajna. We get wealth and nutrition by performing yajna with the mantras of Yajurveda. May these waters be peaceful for us. Do medicines with divine qualities protect us from diseases. These weapons should not be (unnecessary) violent. (1)
O Usha Devi! When you appear, the birds fly out of their nests, and the people who produce food come out of their homes. You give a lot of money to the man near you and to the possessor. 
O Mon filtering from the characters! You give us a hundred cows, the best animals, horses and thousands of properties. 
O Vidhata, the wise and the chronicler of yajnakarma! We, the wise, target you and speak together all the praises that have been made by the fruit-bearing, the esoteric, all kinds of sayingable, and made by the scholars. 
O proud God of water! Look at me happily and touch my body with your welfare body. The water that drips and purifies nectar, let it be disease-destroying and happy for us. (4)
O Indra highly famous by the praises! I beseech you through the same kind of praises and sacrifices that you can save to me with more wisdom. 
O darbhamani! There are hundreds of protective shields and powers in your knots. This king, who wishes to protect from all gods, has been given to you to remove old age. (2)
O earth! The smell that the medicines and water wear, which gandharvas and apsaras consume, you adorned me with the same smell. No one is my enemy. (23)
Divine Adhwaryun Fire and Air! Please duly perform this yajna. The tongue of agni moves upwards. Please inspire us to move up too. (18)
 O agni! You are the knower of everything and are immortal. You are going to cooperate like a friend. We praise you. O listener! You also praise such agni. 
O Indra! With the initiation of birth, sanskar and war, three things become certain with the birth of a human being and bring the huge yajna to you. You are going to make all the substances tasted good, you also make our substances delicious and beautifully combined. (3)
O Indra! In war, the Aryans protect the host. Indra, who protects his devotees in many ways, saves him in all wars and protects him in happy battles. Indra had committed the violence of the yagnadweshis for the welfare of his devotees. Indra took off the black skin of the asura named Krishna and killed him on the banks of the River Anshumati and consumed him. Indra destroyed all violent human beings. 
One of them lives on this earth and occupies space, which bears and gives heaven to these creatures. There are some, i.e. the rest of the gods, who protect all directions. (36)
 Just as horses are sent in wars, water is sent 
O Indra! That's what you did. You were born to destroy the seven Shanrus. You had received the dark dyava-prithvi. You had fun for the great buildings. 
O sun! May we be intelligent for a hundred years. (3)
Jupiter, by his power, subdued the repressed demons, in a fit of rage, destroyed the Shambar Asura, dropped the stagnant water downwards and entered the entire mountain with gorupi wealth. 
We have seen a agni roaming in silence like a go-on in the area and more beautifying itself. People do not accept the yellow flames of the agni at the time of the vampire's invasion, the agni was regenerated and their old flames became young. 
O bright and bright agni as gold! I come to your refuge like shadows. 
O Indra! You have ten hundred horses to bring happiness to you alone. You protect the host. You destroyed the bandit in the prison without a rope for the welfare of sage Dadhichi. You are all attainable and praiseworthy. 
The gods appointed him a protector in the east direction for two months of spring. Brihatsam and Rathantar were made to perform the rituals. (1)
O Rudragana! Salutations to you on earth. Your arrows rain food. We salute you in the east direction. We salute you in the west direction. We greet you in the north direction. We greet you in the south direction. You protect us. You give us happiness. You put them in the molars, those who hate us whom we hate. (66)
Known on cow's leather, Som, who was squeezed well with the help of stones and received money, is saying good words from all sides. 
O agni! Just as rich farmers cut many plants of barley together, in the same way you should eat kushas with havi. (2)
O agni! The utterly detestable and eternal Vishvedevs found the agni hidden in the water, like a lion sitting in a cave, which defeated the enemies and many of their armies. 
Who created these supreme abodes; Who is the creator of the advanced, low and middle dham; We express our strong attitude towards that creator. We hold for you. We perform yajna for you ourselves and increase your body. (21)
May the voice of the sun, who holds water, and Saraswati, who roams in space, praise the agni through me and protect the mind in my praise form. After this, Devmata Aditi install me in the middle of the fruit. Make me a good host like a brother. (19)
O Indra! You released the water infested by the cloud and flowed it away at a fast pace. When Indra wished to free the waters, at that time the extremely pure water was no longer in one place. 
O Usha! You are proper knowledge. You hold desires. You are also going to wish for us. You are the complement of bhasma and agni. Thin lines of sand have been laid on the earth. Please set you around and upwards. You make yajna better. (46)
Bhadra, the worded and the foody Usha quickly got up with Aditya for the host. At that time, the agni that pleased the yajnabhilasis and calling the gods was created. 
 O agni! You are illuminated by the samidha of the people 
O son of strength, agni! Know this praise of our service. O beautiful-nosed and housewife agni! The sons of sage Atri enrich you with praises and adorn you with words. 
O son of strength, agni! You desire the purodash given in the third suvan. Please take the indestructible, heavenly fruit-giving and awakening Somras to the godless gods, who are pleased with praise. 
Amongst thousands of persons, hardly one strives for perfection; and amongst those who have achieved perfection, hardly one knows me in truth.
The motions of the wind are adorned everywhere. Milking cows grow. The rain-bearing cloud generated in space in place of the great sun and the sun thunders in space. 
The Stotagans praise the navel of the yajna, the abode of wealth and the shelter of the great human being. The god who controls the yagna and memots the yajna like a flag produces the Vaishnavar agni. 
Being covered by the Dashapavittra, Soma is present between the dyava-prithvi and goes all the way for the sake of the force of the world-sustaining Indra. Just as veers kill their opponents with armaments, so the desireful Som durbuddhi and the grieving asuras repeatedly obstruct with his force. 
Both the sages named Vratya should get this sacrifice well. (25)
O agni called Barhi! Served and slanted by the gods, let our kusha be wide and extremely fragrant. You should be happy and worship the lord-in-law gods of the desire of the lord. 
Who killed the demon Dudunbi in these? (9)
O Indra! In that struggle, you committed violence against the sun to protect the sage Etash and saved the sage Etash. 
A new wooden plant named Samarth Chamas in Somadharana, created by Tavasthana, was ready. The sages cut him into four pieces. 
 O agni! Gopvan Rishi has created you with his praise. You reside in the organs in the form of juice. You are going to sanctify. You listen to our prayers. 
Marudgana has been worshiped with nine to three times the stotras and hemant season. With shakwari verses and force, we establish the havi for Indra Dev. May Indra Dev be pleased to hold strength and life for us. (27)
O Indra! You are the swami of horses, so come quickly to us to hear our psalms and stop your horses near our ready someras. (3)
Indra also gives food to those who do not praise and climbs on a slow-moving horse to conquer the hidden wealth of the enemies. 
Let us experience the ultimate new pleasing defense of the Aschinikumaro. O deathless Ashvinikumaro! You give us wealth, brave sons and all the good fortune. 
The host who serves The Pusha through the divine, the Pusha does not harm him in the slightest. He finds the most money. 
Saraswati Devi and Ashwinikumar are energetic, complementary and juicy. Both of them established Venus in Indra Dev, established light in the middle region. Ashwinikumars established vision in the eyes of Indra Dev. Indra Dev is rich. Hold money for us. Those interested in money should please perform a welfare yagna for him. (52)
Why does another creature in the forest respond by licking an animal that has the same words as a bull? It is as if they sing the praises of the forest while genesis the vowels on the veena. 
Hey Mon! You are the masters of the Brahmins in the satkarmo, the ones of the radiant and shobhan yajnas. 
Drunk with this drunk somras, Indra picked up the vajra in his hands and shattered the asura named Ahi, who stopped the water. At that time, the water was moving towards the sea in such a rapid way, just as the thirsty birds go towards the pond. 
O Indra called by many! Let us overcome the wisdom of poverty with the help of animals by your grace and calm the hunger spread by the yaves. We achieve the main wealth by staying with the kings by our power. 
 O Indra! You are glorious, wealthy and agile. You get increase from the yajnas that the host performs. We call upon you. 
O Jupiter! Protect the movable, non-violent and ritvijas who attract you to us. (2)
Man should desire wealth for devyagya in all respects and get the money and serve the gods through the path of yajna by getting the money. They meditate on the gods with their knowledge and receive the most admired and omnipresent conscience from the mind. 
Hey Ritvijo! When you are sad, come by the fast horse and serve Indra, who gives wealth, by singing the brihtsam. I call Indra in the yajna with squeezed somras in the same way as one calls a family-sponsor and a benefactor. 
The chariot vehicle is the name of this, where the armaments are kept, where the armor is kept, we all sit in this chariot with good minds. (45)
O agni! You are going to be generated again and again. Therefore, at the end of the yajna, you should again be born at the householder's place, that is, in the morning, midday and evening. Later, enrich us for the yajna again. (14)
I make your king enter with his wife and subjects in the bed-bearing pur that the moon rises with the constellations to protect. May that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (4)
O Indra worthy of service by the work and praises! You come before your hymns with great food, great forces and horses with beautiful calf to make them happy among men. 
O Indra! The Psalms praise you even today, as before. You autonomous every day the water whose owner is the clouds. 
 O Mon! You are divinely visible. The chariot of the sun can go everywhere. You sit on that chariot and see the whole world. You meet in the beloved water and increase the grains. You flow wider. 
With this yajna, the compassion of earth god Indra, space god Indra, heavenly god Indra, vrishti dev Indra, nakshatra dev Indra and disha dev Indra should increase for us. May this yajna come to fruition for us. (18)
The third life of this is the moon named Avyudh. (5)
O tiger! I destroy both your eyes and mouth. In addition to this, I also destroy twenty nails of your four feet. (3)
 O Indra! You are going to kill that big demon 
Vaishvanar Dev is immersed in the surface country of heaven. Vaishvanar Dev gets an increase from Havi. Vaishvanar Dev destroys darkness with radiance. (92)
 O agni! You are supreme 
Hey soup! It is your job to separate the husk from the rice and this is the reason for your birth. Take you in hand for this task, Devmata Aditi with brave sons. To do violence to the enemies who have brought the army to violence this wife, separate the husk from the chawlas. You should provide more money for this wife with brave sons and grandsons. (11)
With the welfare mind with which agni destroys the trees, we sing their testimonies with that welfare mind, so that they can benefit us enthusiastically. (39)
The goddesses who themselves spun yarn, who have woven, who stretch the warp and keep the last parts right around, choose you to live till old age. You should be blessed with all this by being long-lived. (45)
O agni with a specific intellect! Give us all the properties. May our blessings be true today. 
O gods! Your protection is revered and great. You fulfill all desires. This protection is a form of wealth for us. We pray to you from all sides 
O abode and the giver of food! You receive us and give us extremely bright wealth. 
O Indra! You killed an enemy named Shambar, the son of the Kultar, by facing him down on the Great Mountain. 
Like a beloved son, the deserts who wear a sweet heart and are inclined to protect in the yagnas play happily. Rudraputra Marudgana, who has independent power and never hurts the host, comes to protect the humble host. 
As soon as Agni enters the sacrificial ground, his praises and yajna karma begin. All the hosts perform yajna aiming at Agni, the swami of food. O Agni! The host who gives you havya or receives the instruction of your yajna, knowing his karma, give him money. 
O Goddess Saraswati of speech! Your breast which nourishes the baby, gives happiness to others, which is called upon by all, who gives the means of welfare and through which all wealth is nourished, make this type of breast potable for this birth-taking child. (1)
Two horses holding hair take Indra, who is in the hair, close to the yagna. 
O Indra! Just as the flow of water reaches the reservoir, so you get your growing hymns. It is God who has increased your strength worthy of you. It is He who has sharpened your thunderbolt, which overwhelms the enemies. 
O agni! You make our enemies impure. O Jupiter! You should prosper and satisfy our enemies. May Indra, Agni, Mitra and Varuna Devta oppose our enemies. Let our enemies degenerate. (31)
O agni! I give you a greeting and speak beautiful praises. O agni for all! You come to our calls. O ancient and lord of all, agni! Just as a small reservoir in the desert is also pleasant, so you become a giver of happiness by giving money to the sacrificial man. 
 After that, Vasuruch Devgan sees Soma. The revered Soma is praised before the sun that removes darkness rises. This praise is done as if the respected brother is done. 
 O Usha! You are the one who started the yajna work and are wealthy. You plough red horses in your chariot. Please make us fortunate in the world. 
Indra, who does not take anyone's help, unique, prominent among the gods and without destruction, grows by encroaching on the ancient subjects. Indra's donations are welfare. 
O you destroyers of enemies, worthy of praise, worthy of worship, many who do many deeds, the intoxicating and destroyers of the cities of the enemies! We ask you for money. 
O shining and glorious agni! Call the gods in the yajna with your glory and the tongue that pleases the gods and perform yajna for them. 
O Indra! Have these scorpions made you a green deer? You provide them with confirmatory food. Thus Indra is the most important. (3)
O woman! We drive away the demon, etc., who desires to destroy your husband at the time of ejaculation of semen, when the semen is located in the womb, when the womb is moving, or at the time of procreation. 
He who knows this brings food for the guest by applying sweet honey. (5)
O man! Protect you from the fear of the earth, the earth, the earth and the heavenland, which leads to the destruction of the world. O earth! You are going to be everywhere like twin children, so you come to nourish the world. This is how you receive a group of praises. You will try to nurture the world in front of twin children. When the men who receive the grace of the gods give you havi, then you know the place and become established there. (38)
When he walked towards humans, swaha was made an annanad and went on to become a agni. (15)
O departing Maruto! Come. Don't you kill us. You can also tremble the firm mountains when you are equally angry. Don't stay away from us. 
 O Mon! You are huge and successful. Please make the psalmists rich and rich. 
Four-year-old bull and cow should be helpful. The cow should be able to be saved by the yajna and the bonded cow should be helpful, the cow should be healthy with the sacrifice. We have received a bull pulling the cart and a recently married cow. The meaning is that we get all kinds of animal wealth. (27)
Aditya is the force of kshatra and anne is the force of Brahma. (7)
I wish to offer my body to Yama like a wife who offered her body to my husband. They meet each other in the same path as the two wheels. I'll be the same. (8)
O Indra! Reach us by climbing the chariot with welfare beautiful horses on the axis. 
Oh, God! Due to the new, praiseworthy and descriptive force hidden in you, the rivers flowing water and the sun spreads its constant current fast. O earth and sky! Let's know this thing of ours. 
O Indra born in ancient times and without hesitation! We praise with great praises and wigs. Indra accepts praises and vows. The praise for Indra increases. 
The donors and the service-abiding hosts serve Savita, the friend of heaven and earth, in harmony with each other. Listen to our hymns. Follow us well with the main axons of Saraswati. 
At this time our godstoestuaries are getting as detailed as before to go to the devas. May all the gods take their favorable place in the yagna of my power and give me the best fruits. My yajna is the nourishment of all gods. 
O Indra! Your friendship cannot be destroyed. You should be the one who gives the cow to the cow-seeker and the one who gives the horse to the horse-seekers. 
Shad Devta (soft grass) with teeth, Algae Dev (grass produced in water) from Dantmool (root of teeth) and Soil from molars and Teg Dev with molars please Teg Dev. Saraswati devi and utsad dev are pleased with the front part of the tongue. Avkrand Dev from the palate, Food God from the chin, Water God from the mouth, Testis God from the testicles and Aditya Dev with a beard. The cult god from the eyebrows, heaven and earth from the eyelashes, please the electric god with the pupils of the eye. Swaha for Shukla Dev. Swaha for Krishna Dev. Swaha for par dev. Swaha for Avar Dev. Swaha for the above. Swaha for the bottom. (1)
Vritra could not scare Indra with his vibrations. The iron-made and thousand-edged vajra left by Indra went towards him to kill Vritra. Thus Indra displayed his dominance. 
Indra has given horses, elephants and camels for the consumption of humans. Indra has also given cows, buffaloes and gold ornaments. Inder has illuminated the sun and destroyed the demons and followed all the varnas. (9)
 O agni! You are the wise, the nurturer of the subjects, the destroyer of the demons 
O vasdata aschinikumaro! Who can give you the word according to your gracious wisdom? You hear our call to come to the appointed yagna-veda and decide to give us enough food. Give us many songs that strengthen our body, are engrossed and are milch. You move around with the desire to fulfill the wishes of the hosts. 
O Indra and Jupiter! Drink soma in the house of the host who gives you the oath and be happy by living there. 
O agni! We call upon you. We offer havi in your mouth, ghee in saruva and som in the vessel for you. You give us food, wealth, fame, fame and abundant wealth. (79)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Inspire the money you have to go to the stota for consumption. You are equally pleased, bring your chariot in front of us and drink the sweet somras. 
Since birth, this gold has been born in three ways. Agni loved one birth of that gold. He fell when Som suffered. Scholars used to call one the semen of waters. O brahmachari! That gold should triple to increase your life. (6)
The sun shining on your head has eliminated all your diseases through its rays. The moon has eliminated the weakness of the organs in your head and in the heart. (22)
These creatures became equipped with the power to remove death. We are endowed with beautiful heroes and are engaged in dance, singing, humor. We praise the yajna and say that sacrificing to the gods is welfare. (22)
O Maruto! Sing the sins destroyer and huge sammantras for Indra. The sacrificial gods created the sun as a bright and awakening light for Indra through samagana. 
This hymn! Praise the one who fulfills the wishes of human beings and the hanta agni of demons. May those agnis rescue us from demons, vampires, etc. (1)
 O agni! Protect us with conservation power. We invite you for divine knowledge. You give us the best amount of money. 
Please get four and eight, eight and twelve, twelve and sixteen, sixteen and twenty, twenty and twenty-four, twenty-four and twenty-eight stoms from the yajna. Please get twenty-eight and thirty-two stoms, thirty-six and thirty-six, thirty-six and forty-four, forty-four and forty-four and forty-eight stoms from the yajna. May yajna all come to fruition for us. (25)
 O Mon! By your grace, we have found all the happiness 
O glorious and pure Mon! You satisfy Varuna, mitra, Vishnu, the mighty desert, Indra and other gods by intoxication. 
Five rivers join the Saraswati river with the same source. Bahi Saraswati became famous in five ways in the country. (11)
O Indra! You separated the cloud with fragments and containing hundreds and thousands of water from the thunderbolt for the welfare of the psalms. 
O Mon! You are divine. You give us money with your heart and make us lucky. You win us in the war. No one can stop you from donating. You are very strong and very fearless. O Mon! You give us the happiness of both the worlds (earthland and heaven). (23)
O sun! You yourself are great. May your glory increase with our food. You fight demons because of your glory. You're comprehensive. No one can do your violence. (4)
The force of the gods is present in Indra's yagyashala by editing well. The wise, learned and yajna characters who call the agni gods and our sevayas in yajna. 
He who honors him is dear to yajnagya, vamdevya, yajna, host and animals. His location is in south direction. (12)
Mons who go to everyone inspire the praises of the child-giving and the adornment fill. Hey Mon! When Indra drinks you, ask them for food for us along with our children and money to fill the house. 
Don't get us violent monster jati. Now whom to eat, who to eat now - saying that the demon couples i.e. women men roam, they should go away. May Mother Earth save us from the sin committed by demons, vampires etc. (23)
Just as the motionless rays are located in the sun, so all kinds of wealth reside in the Vaishvanar Agni. That is why you are the master of the wealth in the mountainous herbs, waters and human beings. 
O Mon! You are infinitely powerful, superior and nurturing wealth. We are always there for you. This is our first culture worthy of the world. Varuna, Mitra and Agni are the first gods. (14)
Bhava and Rudra, who remain friends, attain one vote and become unbeatable by enemies, roam everywhere to express their bravery. Hello to both of them. Salutations to them in the direction in which they are present from our place of residence. (14)
The one who did not know the essence of the earth became angry. (8)
O Somakars Indra and Varuna! Drink this intoxicating and squeezed somras. O brittadharko! Your chariot grows on the path of yajna for the sake of sompan with the gods. 
Those who know the secret of sacrifice, and engaging in it, partake of its remnants that are like nectar, advance toward the Absolute Truth. O best of the Kurus, those who perform no sacrifice find no happiness either in this world or the next.
Indra is the emperor. Barun Dev is the king. Both of them offer bhog first. After that we consume that material. Please join devi prana and give someras fulfillment. We offer sacrifices for them. (37)
The raspanakaras and the possessors of heaven, soma, holding the world, wants us and is cleansed in water. 
O lord of the yajna, Indra and Agni! Join the suaves through which you carry the havan. You come here. 
The asuras had hidden three substances of milk, curd and ghee in the cows. The gods found them. Indra and the Sun produced one substance each. The gods created disgust from the thorny agni. 
There are two children. (15)
Who strengthened man's ankles, ankles, and flesh? Who confirmed man's beautiful fingers? Who positioned the veins in the middle of the fingers? (1)
Those with unlimited defenses, the masters of much wealth, the creator of the folk, the kranta-karma-walas and the intoxicating mon drips for Indra. 
Some learned people declare that all kinds of actions should be given up as evil, while others maintain that acts of sacrifice, charity, and penance should never be abandoned.
Both of Indra's horses going towards Somras carry the chariot. Thus the chariot of the workman Indra is the best. 
O workman Indra! Crushed by the stone segments this mon has been prepared for your drinking only. The mon originating on the mountain has been squeezed for you. May the gift of opinion, given for the attainment of great and strange wealth please you. O you of praise! Come, delighting us to hear our praises. 
O Jativeda Agni! The good working host to whom you do soothing grace, he gets perishable wealth, full of horse, son, semen and cows. 
From the upper part of heaven and the lower part of it, that is, on the earth, the treasure of the Vedas was hidden in the cave of Acharya. The second treasure i.e. the Vedas established the pratipadya devas. Brahmachari protects these two treasures related to the reader of Vedas with his tenacity. He interviews brahma as the Vedas. (10)
The havan completes are spread around places like agni, garhapattya, etc. and hold the food that comes from the earth throughout the year. Fire takes the food of the havi and speaks like an angel between the earth and the sky, while saying words like horses and bulls. 
 O agni! You are the destroyer of sins and the benefactor of admired human beings. For Riksh's son Shrutrava, we reveal you with great flames. 
The knowledge about the nature of the Supreme being is situated in the hearts of all beings and in the senses of all beings. By increasing the knowledge related to sepreme being through Havi, heal our ears and eyes. May we be in tune with the pace of life. (1)
O Savita Dev! You are a garuda form. Trivrittom is your head. Gayatri verses are your eyes. Brihatsam and Rathantar Sam are both wings of yours. PanchdashTom is your own. Verses are part of you. All yaju are your names. It's your body. Yajnayagnya sam is your tail. The agni contained in the dhishnis is your wings. You are a good mover. You fly into heaven. You fly voluntarily. (4)
O genius! Speed up the axe by which the characters are made for the sompan. O scholars! You make such a secret dwelling place, because of which the gods attained immortality. 
O sun! Save us from sins at this sunrise. Friends, Varun, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash accept our prayer. 
O serpent named Arbudi! Shake the armies of our enemies who are unhappy due to the excess of poison. O serpents named Arbudi and Nyarbudi who conquered! You defeat our enemies and become victorious and together with Indra make us victorious. (18)
O young and violent fire! Listen to my great and revered hymns as they are spoken at this time. No one praises you and no one condemns you. O fire! I'm going to worship you and praise you. 
When heated, they do the word water and fly the droplets and fight. O burn! Just as the wife meets the husband after seeing him, in the same way, you should join the rice for the yagna in the season. (29)
Being born in the yagyagriha, Agni is joyful and happy like a son, who is going to drive away enemies in battle like a horse. When I call upon the gods who reside together with the sages, then this agni itself takes the form of those gods. 
O earth and sky! May your praise be real. Be able to conclude our yagnas and give us great abhyudaya. O agni! Greetings to the earth and the sky. I serve them and ask them for money. 
O agni! Please make us holy with your purity. Please make us pure with your brilliance. You are radiant to heaven. Please make the yajna holy with your holy karma. (40)
Let the agni protect our yajna by the flames of agni which are meant to be used for the gods. 
O Indra! Don't hand me over to the enemy who commits violence. Don't even entrust me to the authority of the defeater. O mighty Indra! You make us powerful by your karma. 
I receive two horses with adorned ropes, full of hunters, worthy of wise men and fast-moving, with the most innovative praise of the friendly gods. 
May the great, glorified, the vast splendor, the brightest, the brightest lit up from a distance like the constellations of the sky, the happy, the beautiful tongued, the words with the mouths, the praise-rich and the deserts of Indra's helpers, come to our yajna. 
O Indra! We know you to be the one who wins wealth, the one who breaks even the strong enemies, the one who snatches away the wealth of the enemies, and the protector of the house. 
O Indra of praise! These praises are being made for you. You sit well on these cushions. Oh, Shur! Eat this purodash. 
O tolerant Indra! May you give us the strength of the best and the best, the best, and the best, the power to destroy the enemies of the violent, the enemies of the violent. 
Shoulder bones are related to deserts, first bones are related to Vishve Devas, second bone Rudraganas, third bone Adityaganas, tail air, buttock agni and soma. Both the thighs are related to Indra Dev and Brihaspati Dev, both the thighs are related to the friend god Varun Dev. The bottom part deals with the attack. The upper part is related to Bal Dev. (6)
Men who wish for heaven in the form of sun, worship the agnis sacrificed with mantras and ignited by mantras, always keep them illuminated. (49)
O agni! You hinder the inaccessible cities of the enemies and remove diseases and demons. You shower more water for us from this vast ocean of dotting. 
The characters transmit the plate and the incoming juices to the anus and other parts. For us, they are like good milch cows. We have a spleen like Schyen's wing. Navel is the asandi operator. The abdomen is like a mother. (86)
Hey Mon! These seven rivers are your rule and the cows come running to give milk for you. 
I speak best praise for the most powerful Indra, the most weak Samvaran sage. That will make people like me powerful. After listening to praise for the purpose of getting food in the battle, Indra should be kind to the stomats of Mujh Savaran. 
The Blessed Lord said: Those who fix their minds on me and always engage in my devotion with steadfast faith, I consider them to be the best yogis.
O friend, Adhwaryu! You generate the workman agni by Aranimanthan. If it is not born, then you become powerful and engage in a churning war. Shobhan is the winner of the powerful Agni Sena. With the help of these, the devas defeated the asuras. 
O King, Assamese! You add red horses to the chariot to get money for the brothers who please the sage Agastya. You defeat the non-sacrificing and greedy people well. 
O Vishnu! You are as pleasant as a friend, the worthy of the sacrifice of the enemy, the more grained, the protector, and the healthiest, so your praises are worthy of being increased again and again by the wise hosts. Your yajna is complete by the solemn host. 
Karyanshi, Chirantan and Best Indra had created the water that prevented thirst and created the strong water. Indra and Varuna, the lord of heaven and the sanctifier, are pleased with the praises of the brilliant yagyakarta and hold wealth. 
Don't trap us people. Leave us for the great yajnakarma. Indra is famous and subdued to all. 
Annad, who knows this, eats food with sacrifice. (8)
If this patient's age is over, it is a bit lost from this world, or it has come near death, yet I can still return it from nirtrati, the god of death. I've touched it to live a hundred years. 
O Indra! You bring before us the happiness that is rich in food etc. with your ten fingers. (3)
May Ashwinikumar, Bhag and Aditi Devi bless us. May the truthful and strong god welfare of us. May the earth and sky with knowledge also benefit us. 
O Mon! You spring from thousands of holy streams. You make worshippers goan and wealthy. 
May the permanent god of space protect me in air space and in the east direction. They protect me in the act of stepping and in the place of stepping. They should protect me in the city where I go and they should serve my interest. I surrender to the air. It should be received by air. (2)
O agni, the grandson of power! A sage named Vimad, who is full of immortal wealth, has said these hymns to you, wishing for good wisdom. You accept them and give money, power, sanctuary and all kinds of money to Vimad. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! How can we reveal to you, knowing the mighty you have revealed? O mighty Indra! Whatever new feat you show, we will describe it in the yajnas. 
 O agni! You are going to do the best work in this yajna. You are bhajaniya 
O Gods! Please give us strength for enemies, noble deeds, great Kshatriya forces, great nobility and great people's kingdom. O Gods! Please give us strength for the ability of the great Indra Dev. O Gods! Please give strength to the son of such a father and the son of such a mother. Please give us strength to follow the people. This Som is the king of us Brahmins. (18)
The person who enjoys food eats food, he eats food only through Me Shaktirupa. The person who sees, breathes or hears the world, I do all this in the places of business power. Not obeying me, they are weak in the world. O friend! Listen to what I said. I preach to you brahman worthy of reverence. (4)
Wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go with the help of their initiation and penance, the water god should take me there. May the water god wear nectar in me, may the sacrificial water god get it well. (7)
In ancient times, Indra, who was injured by Vritrasura, was disturbed by thirst and made this sattu that destroys strong food and old age. The same food and sattu are being given to you. Through this, you should live for a hundred years by becoming the best bright. May the drunk sattu stay in your house and give strength. The Aschinikumaras , the physicians of the gods , prepared this medicine for you . (7)
Mitradi Dev and Aditi are the masters of violence-free yagnas. They are also the masters of wealth. 
Amongst horses know me to be Ucchaihshrava, begotten from the churning of the ocean of nectar. I am Airavata amongst all lordly elephants, and the king amongst humans.
O Desertion! Please make us energetic from un. You should hold the strength of stones, medicines, waters and plants. Make them more juicy. You eat food. You're cool apps. Your anger should be on those who hate us. (1)
O sun! You are the seer of all beings walking on the vast path and the doer of light. This entire visual world illuminates and shines through you. 
The gods named Savita and Bhaga provide money to the havandata host. We wish them a strange wealth. 
 I 
O Indra! May the som yags done for your purpose be so pleasant that the divine waters in the sky please you for the welfare of the people. May all the voice in the form of a hymn please you and you may do the will of the praise-giving devotees by raining. 
O agni! We will praise you with these praises today. Your purifying flames say the same words as the rays of the sun. 
He not only stops the movement of life in the body, but also becomes completely inferior from age i.e. dies at a young age. (6)
That happiness which covers the nature of the self from beginning to end, and which is derived from sleep, indolence, and negligence, is said to be in the mode of ignorance.
Fire burns the wood quickly with its flames. The great agni makes itself a fast moving messenger and takes help from the power of the air while burning the wood especially. Just as the rider makes the horse powerful, so agni forces its rays. 
Indra should combine the powers according to the yajna in this yajna. This sacrifice should be for Indra's sake. (11)
I walk like the air making up all the eyebrows. My glory is such that I am greater than the earth and the world. 
O you are pure, Mon! You together with the gods give us wealth. Hey Mon! You wish the gods and give us the riches of the horse. Let us come before us to give many kinds of wealth to the wisdom of Som, who wishes for the chariot-bearers. 
O Indra! The people fled with a hundred armies who fought with many food-giving and meritorious dogs because of your help. Indra put an end to the deceitfulness of the shushna asura of all the powers and took away all his food. 
O great, serious, fierce by nature, everywhere and the protector of the sultryness Indra! The som, squeezed a day before, goes to you in the same way that the saritas are absorbed in the ocean. 
In the body of Virat Indra Dev, the lom of the upper part and the lower part of the lom kidney were formed. Virat Indra Dev's body was shaved and bearded. Hair stems for glory on the head. Made the peak for grace. The hair on the skin of the other senses occurred as a lion's lom. (92)
Those who bring the heavens near the agni gods, those who are possessed by the force of the arms, they call the gods to man and give the people the best wealth like the sun. 
O devouring instruments, the knife- walas, the manasvis, the masters of the shobhan-bow, the arrows, the tunir ones, the shobhan horses and the charioteered marutos! You guys wear the adornment armament. O son of the earth, Maruto! You come for our welfare. 
The gem made from the wood of the Arjuna tree of matted color, from the husk of barley and the manjari of sesame seeds, remove your disease. The medicine that destroys regional diseases, diarrhea, tuberculosis etc. should remove all diseases. (3)
The deserts with these four names, who walk in a directional, who walk in a disoriented path, walk in the opposite path and walk in a favorable path, should elaborate and hold our yajna. 
O agni! You are the one who illuminates and protects the yajna like a watch. When you go as Varun, you become a protector. O Jativeda Agni! You become the grandson of water and the messenger of the host whom you accept. 
 O Mon! Appear on the horizon 
As the mind wanders away, it also travels away in sleep in the waking state. The mind is far-reaching, luminous, the originator of light and the only light. Let our mind be full of welfare resolutions. (1)
This cow fights among themselves when touched and breaks down when standing nearby. (13)
O somaroopi beautify with food! Be happy with the gods knowing your birth in the devasrangi. You have received the item and praise generated from Sompan. Give us money with sons and grandsons. 
That's it, Mon! You are the visionary of the earth, the seer and the mighty of all. I'll send you to the wars. 
We measure this crematorium without defects, so that we do not get another cremation deed in the middle before a hundred years. (42)
O agni! You are Indra because of fulfilling the wishes of gentlemen. You are a Vishnu worthy of being praised and greeted by many devotees. You are brahma, the guardian of mantras and the knower of wealth. You create various things and dwell in the intellects of all. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! We are the leader and the uqtha-speaker in your yajna. We give you a gift as well as make you charitable to non-charitable people. You accept us for friendship. 
Having got various grains through the rainfeder Indra, people do various things for life and eat barley like enemies. 
Hey Ritvijo! Those who are the best of the Som devas, are human-friendly and go into space and who have been crushed by the teachers with the help of stones, you should irrigate those somas with water after the yajnakarma. 
The agnis that destroy the demons with their rain-bearing and bright flames, protect us from our enemies. 
O Shur Indra! You drink the somras quickly. O Dhanaswami Indra! Don't be famous and do not violence us and protect the host who praises us. You make us rich by giving us more money. 
In every yajna, agni is worshiped with stotras. You are immortal, omniscient, dear and friend of ours. You are acclaimed. (42)
Only by loving devotion to me does one come to know who I am in truth. Then, having come to know me, my devotee enters into full consciousness of me.
The trees I know, the ones I can see with my own eyes, and the trees I do not know, are all capable of disease destruction. (18)
May Marut protect me with my ganas for the stability of the soul, for the stability of the apana, for the growth of age, for the revolution of the body, for the skilled and for the adornment of the property. May this sacrifice be well received by The Desert. (10)
Hey Mon! You're the master. So rain intoxicating streams and give us powerful horses. 
O God! Brahmins worship you with mantras. Hosts always praise (praise and worship) you through the wives. We praise and worship Varun Dev here while wanting happiness. Wake them up to listen to prayers. Don't make them angry with us. Don't reduce our age. (49)
Oh my friend, Ritvizo! You sing this hymn to the sacrificialism and the enemy-destroying agni and give the havya. 
The sages have spoken all the praises with the desire to get food. O Vasishtha! You also worship Indra through hymns and salutations. The Indra who has expanded all the realms with his power should hear the praises of the one near to me. 
 O Mon! You make us Goans and Horses. You give us immense glory. 
Vishwavasu Gandharva, who lives in heaven and the creator of water, should say this in front of us. What is true and we do not know it, let them protect our intellects by inspiring our intellects in that matter. 
The brothers of the yajna know the human beings engaged in the work of agni yajna. The adhwaryugans bring the agni to the north-altar with a huge rope in praise. They live in the host's house while fulfilling their desires and take uniformity with him. 
O the most powerful Indra! Human beings spread all over the place gather to get water and perform yajna. When people gather in the struggle with the desire of war, only a few lucky people are able to remember Indra. 
O leafy queen! Being made from the leaves of Somlata, you are going to protect the body. You are born like Shaktishalini and me veer. Like the sun, I want to tie tejaswini your parnamani to get radiance. (8)
We invoke Indra Dev, Agni, Mitra Dev, Varun Dev, Aditi Dev, Prithvilok, Swargloka, Marudgan, Parvat, Jal, Vishnu, Pusha Dev, Jupiter Dev, Bhag Dev and Savita Dev. We request all the gods to come with protective equipment. (49)
O Indra who loves horses called Hari! Do not separate the horses from the chariot in a place far away from us and come to us. O Somayukta Indra! Be happy in this yajna. 
May the brave-minded and worthy of yajna protect us from violent and sin. Death with evil intellects could not take over us. We ask for the same protection of gods today. 
 O agni! You sit on the chariot with the gods. The flag of yajna hoists on your chariot. The host house, mind and yajna reveal to you 
The great generals who hold you in high esteem will think that you fled from the battlefield out of fear, and thus will lose their respect for you.
All our sons and grandsons who are increasing the agni through havi, all of them should sit near the wealth of animals, etc. 
The cow staying in the west direction is Savita and the cow staying in the north direction is Savita. (22)
Just as the sun is released from darkness and discards the causes of the origin of night and usha, and just as the elephant sweeps the dust on its body, so I completely remove the karma of the creator of the krita from me. (32)
All the winds are as wide as the sea. Those vanis praise the glory of Maharathi Indra Dev in the chariots. Indra Dev is the most powerful of the strong. Indra Dev is the best parent among the guardians. (56)
In which part of this human being is the power to do penance? In which part of this human being is the capacity for true speech located? In which part of this man is the fast, that is, determination and faith, located in which part? In which part of this man is truth established? (1)
The hosts participate in havans wholeheartedly. Those who are moved drink somers with their mind. We request Som to be able to destroy enemies including children. Let us churn them like Mathani. Let us fearlessly attain divinity. May the gods please protect us. (17)
O old man! I stand from the top and bottom of my feet to subjugate your anger. Just as you should not be able to resist Me by being in control and the way you adapt to My mind, I take the same remedy. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! Surely you are the best masters, worthy of praise, the best of the maruts, the enemies, the most skilled in doing deeds, the masters of the chariots and the best of those who protect. You take the chariot full of honey all over the place. You sit on the same chariot and come to the yagna. 
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan in the south direction of our habitat, they do our violence from the south direction. Those enemies should turn away from us and burn. We kill these witchcraftists by returning their witchcraft to them. (2)
Women who have contaminated hearts and old women should leave here, giving it a sharp rise. (29)
Savita Dev praises her holding karma by completing the earthloka and the heavenly place with her brightness. They spread out their arms in the form of permission and apply the world to their work every day with their light. 
O abhivarta mani! You stand firm in front of our enemies and defeat them. Defeat those who abduct our nation, wealth, etc. and behave in enmity towards us. Defeat those who decorate the army to fight us or are hostile to us as witchcraft. (2)
The meritorious ritanis hymns praise goddesses with a bright chariot, a mahati, a revered one in the yagna, the red coloured, the darkness and the usha who lives in front of the sun. 
At the time when Jupiter had broken the weapon of violence of a demon called Bal with his mantras of the same heat as agni, he revealed the milch cows hidden by the bal asura in the same way that the tongue eats chewed food. When Jupiter came to know the cows hidden in the cave of the mountain with their voice of worship, then by piercing the mountain, he took out the cows in such a way that the eggs of peacocks etc. are broken and the child is removed from inside it. (6)
O Kushikgotriya Brahmins! I have been an omniscient agni since birth. Disgust is my eye and nectar lives in my mouth. There are three types of my soul. I am a ruler of the sky, constantly illuminated and in a state of flux. 
In the means of digging, we are more vaidyas than meritorious Brahmin vaidyas who are without spades etc. and are able to dig with wood, hands and feet and also prove the impossible people with the strength of mantras. We worship the waters. (3)
The goddess should come to the yagna given by us. May they give us the best results. O world stream and this beautiful permission! Give us wealth with good children. (5)
 O Mon! You are awake, extraordinary, great, poet, unspeakable, admired and benevolent. You are heroically coordinated. You enter the holy utensils. 
Indra has pervaded the earth and sky with his brightness and has established bright constellations in the sky. O Indra! No one who equals you has been born and will not be in the future. You are willing to hold the whole world. 
Herbs survive by lightning and thunder of clouds. Air and cloud protect herbs from rain-like life. (21)
O aschinikumaro! You take the gods of equal love and come before us by chariot. We have a paternal friendship with you. Ours and your bonds and wealth are the same. 
Fire is widespread, powerful and hostile. They should make man mighty. They are disgusting vaginas. Please drink a lot and increase the host. (38)
The gods have made the agni the best of wisdom to bear yajna and call. Give money with a lot of semen to the person who does the agni service and gives the havan. 
O God of Agni! You are present in yagyashalas like Garhapatya etc. as a means of yajna. Just as grass is given to a horse, in the same way, we should provide this edible food and night and day for you, please with food and money and get your proximity and we do not get destruction. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Come well at my call and hear my praise and drink somers. Protect our house from the enemy in such a way that no one harms it
O agni! I do in front of you a character called Juhu, which is sharp, full of havya, full of ghee and full of ghee. Let the agni that enhance the value of the gods come to the yagna by taking money to give us money and doing the circumambulation. 
We are calling Indra and Agni to this yagna for the praise of the friend God. They are both somras drinkers. We're calling both of them to drink somras. 
May the father of the ancestors protect me in this Vedukta paurahitaya karma of mine, in prestige, in resolve, in divine deeds and in action as blessings. (17)
The born and admired by the praises go to this yagna for the cause of Som Indra as a bird goes into its nest. 
O Indra! You have drunk the graceful Someras. May Saraswati Devi water you with her personalities. (5)
O Mon mixed with cow's milk-curd! You go to sit in the place of the yajna, looking at the deer-like dyava-prithvi. 
The hosts performing divine work establish Indra Dev, the immortal god of yajna, with the best prayers. They are located in the east direction. They increase the agni from havi. Fire is shining. (42)
Just as the air removes the moss from the water, so Jupiter ended the darkness of the mountain by the light of the sun. Just as the wind removes the clouds, Jupiter thought and pulled out the cows hidden in the place of a monster called Force. 
O Lord Indra! You get up with oz. You have beautiful chins. Drink this drink. O Mon! You are being kissed for Indra. Som has been taken in the kalash for Indra Dev. It is the original abode of Indra Dev. We accept you for Oz. Indra Dev is Ojawan. They are powerful in the gods, just as we become powerful in human beings. (39)
O God of agni! People with good thought praises for you in the yagnas to please the gods. 
Indra, who, when called upon by many hosts, joins the battlefield with his brothers and untiring human beings and gives victory to both types of refugees and their sons and grandsons, be our protectors with the help of the Maruts. 
Anger is its kidneys, the values are its testicles and the subjects are its genitals. (13)
O bride! I free you from the loop of Varuna with the bondage with which the beautiful-faced Sun God tied you. I establish you freely with the husband in the base of truth and in the lokaform of good deeds. 
O aschinikumaro! You deserve to be called to the yagna every day. Come to the earth three times and sleep on the altar in the form of three layers. Just as oxygen comes into the body, so you come to the three yagnasthans. 
Just as the rain falls on the earth, so the unruly Somersa falls down to please Indra. 
We praise agni for happiness and fearlessness to avoid enemies. The protectors of the entire nation are able to give the agni sages a place of residence and to be called. 
 O Mon! Just as rivers are stable by selecting the sea, so Someras is stabilizing by reaching Dronalash. Someras is unique, go-rich, enjoyable and nutritious. 
This cow, which gives birth to two children together, destroys other animals of the host like a meat-eater and a sufferer. It is as painful as Tonetotke. It should be donated to a Brahmin. By doing this, it becomes a welfare for the host through its child. (2)
In whatever way people surrender unto me, I reciprocate with them accordingly. Everyone follows my path, knowingly or unknowingly, O son of Pritha.
O Brahmaspati! I have made this glorious praise for you and the thunderbolt Indra. Protect our yagnas, listen to many praises and destroy the enemy army that attacks us devotees. 
I saw from close quarters the smoke spread everywhere through the Equinox and The Enavar Yagya. The heroes cooked the power-giving someras. They were the main dharmas. (25)
Hota performed yagna from the middle part of the chhag (medicine) for Ashwini Kumars. Before the malices, those who have the right to accept the evil from manliness, those gods should be pleased to take anan from their virility. Fire digests that food and spreads it hundreds of times in air form. There should be no damage to the armpits, waist, genitals and other organs. Those organs should be strong. He was! Please perform yajna for the welfare of all. (43)
The mantra of Brahmaspati, who performs great deeds, is true according to his will. He has done the department of the sky by taking out the cows. Just as the water of the rivers flows downwards in different streams, in the same way the cows went to the houses of different gods according to their power. 
I call for this peace deed, which gives life, without anger, protects the protector of the consuming, the disease-defeating and powerful vivity i.e. the herb called Guarpatha, who is willing to destroy the diseases. He should cure the disease of this close man. (6)
The important position that appears and transmits is in the cave. This body is the cave and the soul is the important position that communicates in it. That important position i.e. the soul is dynamic and breathing and in it the whole world is contained and established. (6)
May a medicine named Sahadevi, which gives me the desired results, gives me happiness. He should make my cowshed more milk and my sons, servants etc. disease-free. (2)
The black neck animal is related to Agni, Meshi Saraswati Devi, brown animal to Som, black colored to Pusha Dev. The red colored animal Indra Dev and the mottled animal Marud Dev, the strong animal Indra and agni, the sun god with white color below, one foot white and the rest of the black limbs are related to Varun Dev. (58)
 The sun has kept horses in the chariot. Those seven horses are purifying. The sun goes everywhere with the horses of rays. 
O men! The one who received the Shambar Asura hidden in the mountains in the fortieth year, who killed the asura named Danu, who was sleeping in the mountain using force, is Inder. 
Pururva said, "When will the son born of your stomach want me?" Will he not shed tears when he knows me as a father? Who would want to separate the husband and wife who want each other? At this time, let the agni of your belly be ignited in your father-in-law's house." 
Give us peace only when we call for the first time. Let space be our peace-giving to see. May the herbs and the trees give us peace. Lok's husband Indra give us peace. 
O Indra! Make earth, heaven and space in the middle of them devoid of you demons. You consume the demons with your glory. Demons hate Brahmins. To destroy them, make the earth and the sky bright. (8)
 O hosts! Sing the virtues of somers you drink for the item. They are our friends. Just as the mother adorns the child, so you should adorn Soma with havi and stotra. 
O conch! You are the chief among the precious substances like gold, silver, etc., because you have been born from the nectar-like lunar system. In wars you are visible on chariots. You look full in the quiver. This type of conch or gem made from conch increases our life. (6)
The nine-volume earth, seven oceans and heaven are located in Brahma in the form of Yajnashesh. The sun and night and day are also located in the Brahman of Uchishta i.e. yajna remaining. All of them should be by me. (14)
Indra, in the form of a cloud that showers water, roars repeatedly in other directions and rains water in the other direction. He is the water-thrower, the eater of all and the king. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
Surya Dev rides on a boat with hundred sticks for the welfare of everyone. This boat has symptoms of a chariot. O sun! Do not obstruct me at night and cross me from all the three sessions of the day i.e. morning, midday and evening. (26)
O blazing agni! You become more luminous through the samidhas and bring them here knowing the gods worthy of yajna. O jataved agni! For those gods, while cooking the havi of Brahmaodan, you take this host to the best heavenland. (4)
O virgin! You go to sleep. He is not what you think of him. (4)
O mighty, lord of cows and the famous worshiper Indra! This sommerus has been squeezed for your delight. O enemies Indra! You are called by praises. 
O kanvagotrian sages! Praise the agni along with the maruts with thunderbolt in your hand and with the armament of digging a wood made of gold. 
When the agni that completes it is selected after the bringing of Soma, then the karma of Agnistom etc. is also completed when Soma and Agni are proved. (21)
The sun took the eyes of the man and the wind took the life of the man after death. In addition to the pranas and senses, the man's body was given to the agni by the gods. (31)
The vampires who roam around with horns in their hands for their play or drinking, who are located in the houses of culinary or potters, who laugh and who make the form of agni on the pillars of the house, we drive them away from the abode of the womb. (14)
O act! The person who meditates has placed you in the raw vessel of soil in the grains mixed with rice, barley, wheat, upwak, sesame and kangni or in the meat of murga etc. I return you to him who sent you. (1)
O Shur Indra! You destroy both bandits and Aryan enemies. O Indra, the best of the leaders! Just as the woodcutter cuts down forests, so you cut down enemies in battle with your sharp weapons. 
The agni produced by forceful wood friction soon holds all the sacrificial deeds of the revolutionaries like chirantan. That electric form makes agni a friend of air and water. The ritwijs have held on to the money-giving agni. 
O son of Pritha, whatever acts of sacrifice or penance are done without faith, are termed as “Asat.” They are useless both in this world and the next.
O Yagyapatra Maruto! You come here to complete our yajna. O godless maruto! You listen to the call of Avyamaruta. O the best rich Maruto! You subdue the cynics by staying in space like an extremely huge mountain. 
O thieves who steal money and walk in hiding and follow it! The demons and demons that you have sent to us to provide poverty should return from us. The weapons you have also go back. Your attendant thieves should also return. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. You eat his flesh. (3)
O lord of the yajnakarma and the furious Indra! You protect the Brahmins by all the means of defense by defeating all the armies of enemies. O blasphemous thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink somras by doing the median suture. 
What has been dear to you is that you are generous and give it a confirmatory food for it, like a green deer. Indra is the best. 
 O Indra! You are very rich. We wish for money power. So take your right hand. We know you are the master of cows. You give us many money to fulfill our wishes. 
 O Indra! You are the best, the unique, the divine and the benefactor for human beings. You are admired in heaven. You destroyed the enemy. Defeat the enemies. You have flowed water. You are going to do hundreds of deeds. You are omniscient. You come with your strength. Please accept our wish. 
O Indra, the best of the leaders! May we be the best by praising you in this and other mornings. By praising you, the sage Trishoka had found a hundred men as followers and it was because of the praise that the sage Kutsa sat with you on the chariot. 
O men! You get growth from Indra's words and destroy enemies. You churn the enemy like this, just as the wolf churns the sheep. He could not survive. You destroy him. (4)
The praise-giver, I say, was not properly praised for The Shashiyasi. They are always the same in donating for the purpose of the gods. 
For indra, who has many deeds, is superior to the gods, is capable of wanting and has real power, we squeeze the som. Just as the one who goes to batamara takes away the wealth of good men, so the brave Indra honors the wealth and takes away the money of those who do not perform yajna and takes it away to give it to the hosts. 
Agni murdhanya, superior even in heaven, shining the earth in the form of sun and vaishwanar. He is the guest of the poet, emperor, host born in the yajna. The gods are ahihaks. The hosts raised agni in the vessel to protect themselves. (8)
Directions come to fruition for you. Water should be beneficial for you. May the sea be welfare for you. Space be welfare for you. Directions come to fruition for you. (9)
O Indra! This melody mon is extremely flavored for your adornment body. This mon be pleasing to your heart. 
These sun rays are world famous. These divinity carries. The rays of the sun provide mist to the whole world. O Mon! You have to be eclipsed in the urn. You have to eclipse the shining sun. This is your native place. You get illuminated to the sun. (41)
 Som is jealous. They are the protectors of yajna, will supplementation and strength giver. They are going to give the hosts the most enthusiasm and progress. 
O god! You are bright, holy, like summer and connected within agni. You can extend to heaven. Please imagine you to the land of earth. Water and medicines should be fruity. Please inspire the agnis including Brat to jyeshtha (nobility). May the agnis that are within us with the same mind be pleased to adorn heaven and earth. While bringing the summer season to fruition from both sides, be adorned in the gods like Indra Dev. Please sit still like an angira with your divinity. (6)
O Indra! Give us the rich south that fulfills the desire of the praiseor. O psalmist Indra! We don't give it to anyone else except the psalms. We will praise you a lot in this yajna by getting the best son and grandson. 
The five directions protect this divine yajna and remove the mental intelligence of the host. Remove the disgrace of the host in all five directions. Raise yajnapati with wealth. Raise yajnapati with successful wealth. Please be installed in the yajna. (54)
The appropriate and sanctifying praises of us soon reached the Vaishvanar with karma. That praise is set up by the devas in the east direction to revolve over the heavenly realm fixed from the deepest circle of the Vaishnavar agni from the earth. 
The guest who comes to the houses after serving food to the guests, he gets the fruits of the abbhrith bath after the yajna. (5)
 O hosts! Just as cows are happy to see calves, similarly you should also sing praises for Indra, pleased with drinking someras. They are the destroyers of enemies 
The agnis that move forward with the same rays as the horses joining the chariot themselves shine like lightning by their radiances. The powerful and fast agnis like the sun are illuminated, which limit the power of the maruts. 
The Blessed Lord spoke: I shall now briefly describe my divine glories to you, O best of the Kurus, for there is no end to their detail.
O Shur Indra! You drink the somras kept in the kalash and destroy the enemies in the war for the sake of wealth. O rich Indra! Fill your stomach with somras in the afternoon yajna and give us money. 
O horse! You don't kill, you don't die. You go to the gods through the easy path. Horses are strengthened by joining your chariot. Those words are added to the chariot only. Horses are very fast. (44)
O Indra and Varuna! You two do good to the stotha, give him divine welfare and protect us in all respects. All the scared gods who recite the voice of abhaya and the steady Indra see the various forms of karma. 
The herbs which are the womb of the sewar grass and the water which has life, which are always new due to the repeated growth, they should destroy the sins due to diseases. The leaves or thorns of those medicines are like a pointed horn. (9)
O Vrithrahanta and Indra in the form of sun! Whatever substances are in the world at this time, you have risen before them and the whole world is under your control. 
 O Mon! Devgan drinks your juice. It has been refined by mixing it with cow's milk and water. He is bright. 
Those praise groups go before you. The residents admit to the crime in front of the agni. Let the agni grow out of our praise and not hand us over to the hands of the blasphemer or the violent. 
O Lord of all wealth and the departing Mon! You, being cleansed, bring us wealth and children's wealth from all around. 
Coming from the east direction, Indra should protect us from the violent enemy and give us money. Jupiter should protect us from violent enemies coming from west, north and south directions. (11)
O Ashwinikumaro! Come with the remedies with which you protected the angiras by being pleased with the manable hymns, the first to arrive at the place of the cows hidden in the cave by the pangs and protect the semen-rich Manu by giving food, and with the same measures. 
O Mon restrained by the ritwijas and squeezed with the help of stones! You go into Indra's stomach. 
O agni! You are life-like. Please hold you upwards with your intellect. Please be kind to be welfare towards us. You are well-versed and jyoti roop dhan. (31)
It is true that I have become knowledgeable by the cleverness attained by poetry i.e. Atharva and guide everyone like agni. No one can break the fast I will observe. (3)
May our praises and squeezed somers raise Indra. The people who hold the havya have reverence for Indra. 
 You give us all kinds of wealth and education money like senior, middle, junior etc. We invite you. 
O Sun God! You are nectar. Protect my word as you ascend to the sunland. The mantra yajna and the margagami horse carry you. (43)
 O Mon! You are holy and unique. You attain purity and purity from praises for the woman. 
 O agni! We are your sons. We worship you by law. You are very quick. May you be pleasant to us. 
O glorious, potable, possessive and mighty soma of paradise! You plunge into this true yajna. 
Everyone's inspiring friends spread their light in space in the place of the sun. As bright as agni, those gods, enlarged by the human beings and called by all, are located in the sky. 
Its fourth life is vibhu pavman. (6)
O enemies, Aschinikumaro! The same indestructible chariot has been prepared for both of you. That chariot can also walk in the sea and sky. 
O sun! Let's watch for a hundred years. (1)
This sacrifice should be well received for the seventh and eighth. (3)
O agni! You have mercy on us. You are dynamic. You will find the position of Ganapati of God to make the wicked cry. You come to our place in the yagna. You make the path of the hosts easier. You are a benefactor from earth to space. You make our path fearless. You spread food to the water path. (15)
Just as the chariot horses forsake the evil path, so may our sins leave us. We will get the rakshasadhan of Indra and Aditya. Their defense is hassle-free and benign. 
O agni! Hosts hold all the best wealth for you every day. The brilliant gods who wish for godhan stolen by the demons opened the door of the demons' herd with you. 
The bright flames of agni protect the fast of the host in all ways. (7)
This stotao! As your wisdom rises, so do you read the praises. By the ritual of Satyakarmo we call upon Indra. Veer Indra loves the hymns by knowing the praises. 
I follow the path that extends to the south and which is covered by the sun. May this south direction give me wealth and brahm tej. (37)
O Ashwinikumaro! Priyamedh Rishis called you with all the defense means at the time of yajna. You adorn the yajna. 
 Young Indra is a friend of the hosts whose friends are not interested in war, yet can defeat an enemy with a powerful military force. 
The rays of agni with radiant weapons and the desire to travel in the dev loka are words as exploiters and the dominant moving agni among the gods scatters its brightness by being white. 
As much as the earth and the sky are located and the magnitude of the ocean is located, I utter a speech containing mantras that destroy the poison produced by the tubers, roots, fruits located in these two places. (2)
O omniscient Maruto! Be you and Agne located on the peaks in the superior part of heaven. Be pleased with our praises and our praises and words, and scare and kill our enemies. You give the property to the host squeezing the somras. 
 O agni! You are omnipresent, of amazing power, visible, immense and very capable. You are capable of bringing prosperity 
 Somerus is fast and light. He removes his black bark and goes to the yagna in the same way as the cows go to their enclosure with speed. 
O men! The one who protects the host who squeezes the somras, the one who cooks the purodash, the one who composes the praises and the one who reads, our grain, the som and the hymns that are supposed to increase, is indra. 
Varun and friends protect us in all respects. They give us enough property. 
O stones! Savita Dev should engage in the work of squeezing the somras for the host who performs somayagna. 
The self- who pervaded everyone had gone from the asuras and got the devas. The dream went to the gods to attain importance. Thirty-three gods gave the power to make that dream evil.
I ask for money from a agni worthy of praise, calling upon the gods, pure, without crookedness, the giver, the best, the seer of the world, of various colours like a chariot, of sight and of the eternal benefit of human beings. 
The regionalist! Just as the cows give milk, so do you give us the honey dripping, the holy and sweet water like ghee. May the lord of the yajna make us happy. 
Oh, Usha! You are the son of ashwinikumars, the mother of rays and the master of wealth. 
O Maruto! You know the rich hymns with food grains. So give the money to that son of Shobhanputra quickly. Don't let the enemy destroy that money. 
The three lights of Manu's yajna and the three light-bearings in space are held by the Maruts. O Indra! The holy-powered deserts praise you. O patient Indra! You're going to see them. 
O Surya, while walking for the husband's home, both ears were the wheels of your car and the air was like arrows in them. Surya rode on this kind of car. 
Those who are as bright as the pitra agni, those who are in the middle of the pitar heaven, they are happy with pitar swadha. May God give them good intentions by publishing themselves. Please provide the fruits of karma to their body as per the need. (60)
O husband and wife! You go south and come circumambulating it. Yamraj, who agreed with the untimely ancestors, should provide many types of welfare for your odan. (8)
O Savita! The son located in the drains that carry the urine from the intestines of this woman into the bladder, which are located towards both ribs, should strengthen the womb, so that she can deliver in the tenth month. (12)
Go before the arrows of the enemies. This means that due to adverse wind, their arrows could not achieve their goal. Indra Dev should make his injured arms unfit to hold the armament. May the sun destroy the weapons of those enemies. May the moon separate our enemies from the path that comes near us. (16)
O Lord of the horses Indra! Ritwijs really hold hymns and hymn mantras for you. You consume them. O you who give all the abode, the rich and the pervading Indra! Know the innovative havi given to you and give food to the eulogists. 
O Indra, the giver and the comforter by protection! In ancient times you were the brothers of us stoetas. You still make us happy. 
 Sun, constellations and planets illuminate the sky. The sun spreads its rays and with light we reach the devotees. 
O King Soma-like Brahmaudan! Give excellent knowledge to these eating Brahmins. Make the best Brahmins sitting near you also get the best knowledge. I call the wise sages again and again for the sake of Brahmaodan, a wife born of penance and with a call for shobhan. (26)
O Indra! Sing us with beautiful ornaments of gold, give horses and oil. 
O Stotao! You take refuge in Indra. With this, those who condemn us will not be able to condemn us. (5)
The gifts given in the form of cow etc. went ahead of Surya. That gift was given by the sun. The cows given in the Magha nakshatra were being run over with sticks, Surya and her gifts in the Purva Phalguni and Uttara Phalguni nakshatras were taken to the husband's home. 
Savita Dev defeats everyone by her importance and encompasses the three realms, the three lokas and the three bright elements - Agni, Vayu and Aditya, three heavens and three earths. Let them follow all of us by themselves by three vows. 
We see that just as the girl adorns her to go near the husband, similarly the streams of ghrit refine their form to go near the agni, the streams of ghee move towards the place where the som is squeezed or the yajna begins. 
May the gods who reside in heaven and on earth, the air etc. who travel in space and the gods who are located in medicines, animals and water, may all those gods give life to this man who wishes for long life till old age and save him from death. (3)
Hey Mon! Save us from the condemnation of all enemies by those who are fierce, sharp and hostile weapons of yours. 
East etc. directions should rise with air and clouds. Clouds filled with water should be inspired by air and join each other. The water rained by the cloud roaring like a bull and inspired by the wind should satisfy the earth. (1)
Salutations to the army form. Salutations to the commander. Salutations to Rathvan. Salutations to the chariotless. Salutations to Kshatriya. Salutations to the collector. Salutations to the great form. Salutations to the junior. (26)
Our ears to hear the diverse words of The Universe, our eyes to see the form and our intellect to understand the light are eager. Our mind is fickle with global concern. What form of globalism do we say or believe in? 
Pipvali i.e. Peepal has despised all the medicines and has afflicted all diseases. Indra etc. gods had created it at the time of Amrit Manthan, because this one medicine is capable of preventing all diseases. (1)
Yaksha, Gandharva etc. greeted the air located as the ruler in space. Vayu was pleased with his greetings. Just as Gandharva etc. saluted for air in space, so should he greet me. (3)
At the time of creation, the creator collected hair, bones, nerves, flesh, and marrow i.e. fat. Brahma, who created the universe by creating a body with hands and feet, entered that body in the form of a soul. (11)
After this, what should we enter brahma bal and kshatra shakti? (3)
O Megh Dev! You are Yama because of the secret Brata. You are Aditya due to gupt fast. Due to the secret fast, you are pervading the three worlds. You are one with Mon. Three bonds of yours have been told in heaven. (14)
Thousands of sages have strengthened Indra Dev with their hymns. They are capable of doing thousands of tasks. They are as wide as the sea. They are very glorious and distinguished. In the yajna, the glory of the Brahmins is praised according to their words. (83)
When the sun without ignorance rests while moving, then it creates its own two forms. O Sun God! You rise and subdue all the worlds and illuminate them. (28)
Being on the basis of home, I praise the agni appointed in getting many fruits, the best among those who carry, the seventable through many yajna karmas, the destroyer of demons, the one who increases the yajnas and the agni lit by the offerings of ghee. May this kind of agni redeem me from sin. (3)
If Indra keeps us happy, sin will not come near us and welfare will appear before us. 
Like Parshu, who fulfills the opinion of his master, we see the glow of agni. We describe the rays of this forming sun for the sake of happiness. The agni god comes to the yajnashala as our helper and gives the host a house full of food and good wealth. 
It is going to hold a strong stone havi. It should be purified and destroy the demons. O O O O Son! You are the one who comes to the extreme and does good. The grandson of this couple could not touch their sin. (14)
O stotao! Look at the deeds of the all-pervasive Vishnu God, through which he touched you. This Vishnu is a worthy sakha of Indra Dev. (5)
The sun has been born to greet everyone, to be happy, to be the lord of all the world, to be strong and to all. Let us find the grace of those sacrificial suns, wisdom and the friendship of goodness. 
O agni! We are your sons. You sit in the ultimate place. We worship you with the best satotras. (115)
O glorious agni admired and admired by praises! You, pleased with our most praiseworthy and noble service deeds and praises, give us wealth. 
With the help of red or yellow colored horses that pull the chariot, the deserters come to do the welfare of which eulogian host? The beautiful and hostile weapons, like shining gold, adorned with a desert, make the earth miserable with the wheels of the chariot. 
Pakasthama had given me a horse with a red color, a swollen back, with a rein and a variety of properties. 
Everyone's nourishing Sun God knows all directions. Let them take us through fearless paths. Giver of welfare, radiant and full of heroes like son, grandson etc. and do not enlighten and know us fully, go ahead. (2)
Today Hota performed yagna from the middle part of Rishabh for Indra Dev. Before the malices, those who have the right to accept evil from manliness, those gods should be pleased to accept evil from their virility. Fire digests that food and spreads it hundreds of times in air form. There should be no damage to the armpits, waist, genitals and other organs. Those organs should be strong. He was! Please perform yajna for the welfare of all. (45)
Idr Dev is trata. We call upon them again and again. They invoke them in every havan. We call upon the knight well. They are welfare, wealthy and sustainable. (50)
May our group of ancestors and devas return all senses. Let's get them. 
O agni! You are the ones who know the human beings who are born. You bear our fragrant and juiced charu, purodash etc. praised by us for the gods. You have given the senses called poetry with the word Swadha for the father gods. Those fathers have consumed the lusts you gave. O agni with light! You eat the excess of lusts given by us. (42)
O Indra and Agni consumed by all! You annihilate the enemy like force. You are the master of more wealth, growing together, growing by force and more wealth. You give us anti-enemy and gross food. 
The same fortunate radiance that is in the prince, in the playing dundubi, in the quick departure of the horse and in the high declaration of the man, the same fortunate radiance has given birth to Indra. That bright goddess came close to us, uniting with our glory. (4)
 O Indra! You are brave and firm. You can also destroy brave enemies. You are patient. Your mind is worthy of worship with praises. 
O Vayu Dev! Use the power to take away from you towards those who hate us or those we hate. (2)
O Sahartu Indra! The donation of your huge wealth is great. O indra with all-seer and shobhan wealth! Give us great money. 
O agni! You are the food provider. Powerful people honor you to get food. We greet the gods and ancestors with sacrifice. Please be a benefactor for us. (7)
He is the same. That sage is also alone. Those dhams and blessings are also of the same type. Only a circle and a season are revered on earth. There is no one more than these. (26)
"O two rivers inspired by Indra! You go to the ocean like two chariots, praying to Indra's command, joining each other, irrigating and adorning each other's land by the waves. 
O Indra! for our progress, Your special weapon, the thunderbolt, reaches near the clouds. The Maruts also rain the water collected from time immemorial on the earth. The agni has also been lit for the great sacrifice. Just as water holds the islands, in the same way agni sustains Havya. 
O Goddess Usha! Today we will win and be sinless. Today we will get happiness, save us from the sin of the bad dream we are afraid of. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
Friends and Varun, who eat violent, should be one and make this child die through old age. Agni Dev, who invokes the gods and knows the children who knows the known children, should find all the places of origin and promise a long life for this, that is, increase its life. (2)
 Usha's relative Sun is special. They themselves are illuminating and illuminating all. They are also the form of a cloud that showers water. They roar in the sky. Wise gods created this world with wisdom. The ancestors who saw humans installed it in the mother's stomach 
May Sompan provide happiness to a friend who drinks facing downwards and for Varuna. May all the gods drink the appropriate and bright soma of your service. O lovely friend and Varun! You are the lord of the yajna. You act according to our prayers. 
O earth! We have a lot of water on you to fulfill the desire of the sages to eat. A lot of water is rained by the dynamic friends and Varuna gamanas. 
O earth and sky! We speak to this hymn of yours. Listen to this hymn, Varuna and Aditya, who keep the somras in the stomach, full of agni-like tongue, well-lit, nitya tarun, revolutionary and friends who extend their deeds. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come your chariot with young horses. He is a chariot-destroyer of the earth, made of gold, holding water in the wheels, shining with sticks, carrying food, possessing the havya given by the hosts and the leader of the hosts. 
Similarly, the Vasishtaputras had happily crossed the Indus river. In the same way, they killed an enemy called Bhed. O vasishthaputras! Similarly, indra had protected the sudas king by the power of your mantras in the dashragya war. 
Those brave men who are killed in war, Inder gives them heaven. War is the way to heaven. Indra lives in front of such a war and the yagyakars who wake up in the morning destroy their enemies. Just as omniscient people bow their heads, so should Indra. O Bhadra Indra! May the money you give us be for us and be stable. 
The host who holds the havan praises the yajna's giver, the chief among the gods, the best of the beneficial ones, and the lord of the seven horses praises the agni. They listen to prayers and give the desired fruits by offering agni ghee. They give excellent strength to the donor. 
O milkmine made of vegetation! You are covered with leather and say a very loud word like cloud ghata. You are silenced with ghee, make the words that create fear to the enemies. (3)
Vishwamitra said, "O watery saritas! Stop for a while by listening to my som preparation promise. Son of Kushik, I call Sarita specially, wishing to protect myself through the great praise." 
O trishtika i.e. a herb called Vanaparnya that produces inflammation and O herb called Vrishtavandana that produces inflammation! Forcibly remove this woman from the consuming man. O coke-producing herb trishika! Be a spite for this man capable of breeding and mating. (1)
Oh, o you! Although you are used from house to house, in this yajna you make the same sound as the victorious people play the dundubhi. 
Our father's birth father, pitar, pitamah's father, those ancestors who have entered the vast space and who live in heaven or earth, we worship the ancestors living in all these worlds through namaskars. (49)
Let us praise Savita Dev. The only one whom all the gods praise, the salutation salutations may the faithful Savita wear our hymns and food grains and protect the hymns by all means of protection. 
We praise the same wealthy Indra. Who gave us great wealth worthy of worship and protected the work of praise of the Stota. O Indra! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
For the favored gods and agni gods, this ajya should be given in the agni. O God who knows the way! Take the path and return to our sacrifice on the same path as you have come. (7)
 Indra's horses are tied in the chariot only by the sign of speech. Indra is worshipable by our friend and speech. Please take Indra's horses and come to the yagna. 
O Shur Indra! You drink somras over and over again. May the somras who do the item please you. Mon fills your stomach and increases yours. May the stomach-filling mon satiate you. 
O Indra! You have created these excellent, very enlarged and spread mountains all around. You hold them firmly in the intellect. 
I describe the admirable and simply unintelligible glory of the Maruts. The electricity related to the maruts is going to hold the people with the desire to rain, the ego-possessed stable good fortune and the support of the people. 
O krant wise and annadyukta som! When you are filtered out of the dashapavitra, your streams, who are willing to bring food for the hosts, run like horses. 
Please extend the yajna in all seasons. May the month bless us with the protection of havi. Please wear the Samvatsar Yajna. Please take care of all the people. (14)
We describe the powers of the kamavarshi, the tejaswi and the jataveda agni that are pervaded in the yajna. New and holy hymns for the Vaishvanar Agni are generated like somras. 
I am the master of wealth. No one wins my money. I never become the target of death. O somras squeezing hosts! You want money from me. O men! Never destroy my friendship. 
This is the hymn! Go in front and tell your intention to balvanparjanya properly, praise them with praise words and serve them with good food. The roaring words, rain-fed and quick-donating ones conceive in the perennial drugs. 
 Usha appears well and removes the darkness of her sister night with her rays. She publishes her path. 
O serpent named Arbudi of the god race! You get up with your army. May this sacrificial act of ours satisfy you. The army of Trishandhi Dev should also destroy the enemies due to the sacrifice. (5)
The red and bright rays carry the beautiful, wide and exquisite Usha. Just as the weapon-thrower shrew away the enemy, Usha drives away the darkness and stops the darkness like the quick-moving general. 
The sun wanders alone. Chandra Dev is born again and again. The medicine of snow is agni. The earth is a huge place to sow seeds. (46)
 Someras is eccentric and enjoyable to the gods, the main instrument of yajna. Please stay in som kalash to see everyone. 
After this, it is of this type. (17)
Indra, who fulfills desires or constantly showers weapons, Varuna, Marudgana and Aditya, who drives enemies out of the battlefield, should appear with the power to control enemies. Aditya is able to drive away enemies from this world too. May they conquer enemies. The chants of all the gods rose. (10)
If Indra hears our praise, then our curved spirit, by the dashapavitra bhava, can get the growth from the water called Pure Ekdhan and the intoxicating somras can please him. 
O Vajradhari Indra! You cut the wings of famous, great and huge mountains etc. with your thunderbolt. After this, you left the waters stopped by the mountain to flow as a river. Only you hold this kind of extraordinary force. (6)
He who knows this receives faith, he receives the world. He gets food and he gets food. (5)
It was this Somras that located the earth-sky in its place. It was he who prepared a chariot with seven rays. It was this Mon who had held the milk that was made on his own and had many streams among the cows. 
 Do not listen to people who get satisfaction by creating obstacles in the word 
The host who wishes to go to the world of the virtuous performing yajna, who donates aj for Brahma, attains a glorious place and conquers heaven. (12)
Whoever wishes to destroy your falling or outgoing womb, we destroy him. (13)
O Indra! You are the one who makes the best movement through the horse named Hari and the year of desires. I encourage you to drink somers. Listen to the praises and be happy in our sacrifice. (7)
 O Mon! Somerus is becoming holy, making a sound 
The visible agni is to become the messengers of the gods and walk between the earth and the sky. The agnis installed and seated in front of humans adorn the huge yajnashala with their brightness. They are inspired and wised by the agni gods. 
Fire is pleasing to thousands and is full of hundreds of wealth. Che is annadhipati, moordhanya, poet and wealthy. (21)
Husband and wife! You are long water. Enter this life blessed. Your produce soon cooks odan. You consume the nectar part of the same water. (4)
"O wife! I kept engaged in chanting of mantras and observing celibacy. Yet don't know why I got a sense of work. You enable Lopamudra Semen To be compatible with my husband. You become an impatient woman and enjoy me as a great man." 
The revered deserts are as bright and unbeatable as heroes with light like yajna, quick-moving, as bright as flames, and as brave as the heroes who tremble enemies. 
O sun! You went to the divine place, illuminating the whole world with your own glory. All the people are filled by sunlight for all the work and for all the yagnas. 
O Ashwinikumaro! For the sage who raised you up with his praises, give them a grain of a thousand rupees that drips ghee. 
The great man has a thousand heads, a thousand eyes and a thousand stages. He surrounds the earth and is located ten fingers more than that. 
O agni! The tvashta deity who gives many forms to the earth and all beings, worship him today with our inspiration. (9)
O water! You provide medicines to cure my diseases. Strengthen my body to see the sun for a longer time. (3)
Horses of green color or hari are ploughed in Indra's chariot. Shining in the sky, those horses cross both real and movable creatures. (9)
Just as one gets fame by performing yagya kriyas called Sompith and Madhupark, in the same way, may the gem made from the varan tree give me fame and opulence. (21)
O agni! Thus the sages who utter unsavourable praises by others receive the animal by your grace. May the sage Atri, who performs the havan, by your grace defeat the bandits and opponents again and again. 
I offer my stotra like food to Indra. I chant as a stotra to obstruct my enemies. Other Ritvijas also present their praises according to their mind and intellect for Indra, the swami of all. (2)
O Indra! Those friends of mine who squeeze the somras see you in the same way that the people who bring the grass see the animal. 
Who first saw the unstable interest that arises that holds the whole world? Where is the soul of the water that nourishes the land located? Who went near the scholar to ask this? (4)
Indra's green horses pull indra's golden thunderbolt and the chariot with the help of tied ropes. On that occasion, Indra, who is very fast, sits on that chariot. (4)
Drive away those who do not perform agni yajna, who only talk, who do violence by words, who do not increase by faith and praise, and become the chief and let down other yajnashonyas. 
O medhatithi! When the horses had taken the food, etc., I added them to your chariot with reverence. Born in the Yaduvansh and the lord of the animals, I know how to donate beautiful wealth. 
The brightness of the agni produced after aranimanthan is visible to the rituals. When the wind moves by targeting the flames of the agni, the agni mixes its flame with the trees and burns the still wood with its fast. 
The man whom Vayu, Indra and Brahmanaspati want to beautify worship the increased agni by mantras, wishing for the attainment of a sun-filled heaven. (51)
Whatever sin we have committed in the waking state or sleeping state, please the sun to save us from that sin. (16)
Great, well-groomed, powerful and truthful friends and Varuna illuminate the yajna with his light. 
 O Indra! You do effortful work with the help of the deserts. You are vajradhari and vrikshmik. You rain water to destroy the enemy. Other gods who do great work also cooperate with them. 
On the orders of Savita Dev, whose pervading glow is excellent and illuminates the whole world, Brahma, who is doing shobhan karma, takes gold in his hand and creates soma, which gives happiness through imagination. (2)
O you are pure, Mon! You destroy all manner of the praise worthy wealth of the enemies. O dear Mon! You go to Dronakalash. 
O Indra! Aditya, who wanders in the sky and inspired by you, gives the water you create to the world. Indra made a cloud that stole buffaloes, rice cooked with milk and water. 
O agni! You are bright in the evening, then the animals sit around you. Like an animal, even the little-known host is satisfied by giving the fruits of your shobhan yajnakarma. 
O Maghwa and Sage Indra! Give us a lot of money that is worth choosing and give us a hundred years to live. O beautiful chin Indra! Give us many heroic sons. 
O man! These songs are going to fulfill the wishes for you. The mole of these cows with red and white color, similar and different color and many forms is a calf. Sing such songs should always be near you in your place of residence and continue to serve you. (33)
The father with twelve shapes i.e. twelve months and five phases i.e. seasons i.e. sun is said to be sleeping in the upper part of heaven. Other clever people say that seven wheels and six arrows are located in it. (12)
Salutations to the god of the red color. Salutations to the tree. Salutations to Bhuvanpati. Salutations to Dhanpati. Salutations to the doctor. Salutations to the advisor. Salutations to the businessman. Salutations to the class. Salutations to the one who shouts. Salutations to the one who shouted terriblely. (19)
Deep pravargyaag has been given for the gods like Ashwinikumars etc. Ashwinikumar drinks it through Chamas. All the immortal gods lick the same chamas of Ashwinikumars from Aditya's mouth, being pleased. (3)
O dead men made of clay! I mix you in the soil, that is, I burn your body to ashes and mix it in the soil or bury you in the soil. Increase the life of all of us who perform the ritual of Dhata Devta Yagya. O ancestors who live in a distant world! Dhata Dev is going to give you a place of residence. Go and meet your fathers well. (48)
O bright Mon! While praising in the yajna of the host, the seven would praise you. 
O Indra! You have become brilliant because of the victory and destroy the enemies alone. (6)
O agni! Because the other agnis are your branches, all the gods are happy with you. O global! You are all located in the navel of human beings. Just as the wooden spouts in the earth hold bamboos on top of them, so also you must possess all human beings. 
 O God! Please tell us whether our prayers reach you when the sunrise is there and the sky is illuminated or not? Do you find our special sacrifice or not? 
O Savita! Give us money today and give us money tomorrow. Give us money every day. Oh, God! You are the giver of huge wealth because of residence. We will become partakers of wealth by this praise. 
All prayers provide an increase to Indra Dev. You are as wide as the sea, the best charioteer, the deva of food and the best spinach among the fosters. (61)
Child of the same gods and ancestors, I perform five Yagya and donate. That's what I do. Due to the fruits of the ritual, I should not be devoid of son, grandson etc. (4)
O non-violent, extremely fragrant and filtered Soma! You drip down into the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair. When you are squeezed, we mix you with curd, the milk of the cow and the cow, and serve you in the water. 
O host! I call the son of power, dear: the most knowledgeable, the dynamic, the godly, the dominionist, the messenger of all, and the agni without death, for your welfare through this praise. 
Being pure, mon ushaas are especially illuminated. The folkers grow in som water. Milking the milk of twenty-one cows, the madkari som drips to go into the stomach. 
The rivers said, "This hymn! We listened to your words. Walk along with this bullock cart and chariot, for you have come from far away. Just as the mother bends down to give the child a breast or the young woman bends down to embrace the man, so too do we go down to you." 
O Indra, the friend and Varuna's paan, the wandering and the revolutionary soma! You give us knowledge and force to fall down as stream. 
In the house of the host in which the agnes of the chosen form of all accepts the hymns and food, his heart goes to the gods. 
 O Indra! The praising host invites you to donate. You are the sustainer of truth 
Indra, who is undefeated by the enemies, abuses the enemies by holding the enemy-struck vajra in his hand. Just as the shur sits in the chariot, Indra sits on his horses. Let those horses that walk only by the word carry Indra. 
O sarmaya! Your mother sleeps, your father sleeps, you sleep yourself, the owner of the house sleep, sleeps all the bondage, and everyone from all around you sleeps. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! You sit near your Swami through your wisdom. You deserve welfare praise. (6)
Basudevas have been praised in the spring season and with trivrit verses. Vasudevagan has been praised with rathantar verses. We establish Tej and Havi for Indra Dev. May Indra Dev bless us with strength and life. (23)
Those who get rid of the sin caused by the demons and who give money to the hosts who live on the banks of the seven rivers, you are the same Indra. O very rich Indra! Throw down weapons for the slaughter of enemy monsters. 
Give us money to the gods named Hribhuksha and Ribhu to give us indra food. Give the mighty Indra to your brother Vaz. 
Here, in the place surrounded by all four directions, the cooked substance ends in Sthalipak i.e. Batloi. (3)
Baidya Ashwinikumar is rudra-like nature. He and Goddess Saraswati made Indra Dev's body complete. Stream bone, marrow, meat etc. and skin of cows. (82)
O agni that conquers thousands! You increase the yagnakamas by being ignited, admired and worshipped by the wives and becoming messengers of the gods. 
Both the gods who desire to have a havya and the hosts who wear the havan serve the ruling agni, because the venerated, the desired fruit giver and the prajapati agni are established among the hosts even before sunrise. 
O enemy Indra! Why are you silent at this time? You make our chariot all-round. You have our desired food. 
O servants! Go into the wars yourself. Possess the people who give knowledge and sinners. 
The meritorious adhwaryu adis the fast-moving som with his fingers and eulogies in the lap of the earth. 
O yellow mustard! Protect the child while you are born. Do not hurt the boy and the girl while you were born. Do not do the violence of the demon wombs that eat the newborn. O yellow mustard! "This is vaya, what is this?" thus driving away the wandering demons from the womb. (25)
O agni! You are born a son of balwan, a bearer of good food, a great yagya-doer and with true power. The wealth and the fast-moving and fast-moving horse, inspired by the gods, also arises from you. 
The Pipvalis came after their birth at the time of ocean churning and spoke in the sky that we permeate the living man as a medicine. Don't let that man be destroyed. (2)
 O agni! You are ajar. We illuminate you with committees. Heaven is illuminated by your light. Please provide plenty of money to the hosts. 
O service-accepting and bright agni! You come to this yagna by being ignited and knowing the devotees of the gods. 
O agni! The host to which you come as angels and adorn the yajna by accepting the havan for the enjoyment of those gods. 
Indra Dev should come to us to protect us. He sits here. They should be praised here. His might led to the increase of big tasks. May they expand and strengthen our strength like heaven. (47)
O mighty God! We associate you for Yama Dev. We revere you for yajna dev b surya. Let us make you sweet for Savita Dev. Please touch the earth. Please protect the earth. You are pitra ba tapomay. We worship you. (11)
 Amrit-like Someras is unique and the best. It appeared from heaven. In front of Indra, the host praises Som by singing the mantra. 
O agni! You listen to our call in this place of God i.e. Yagyashala. Submit you to bring your water-showering chariot. Bring them with you, which is like the eyelid of the heavens and earth gods. There should not be any god left who has not come here. (25)
O Indra! We have created praises for you. You are strong. Everyone is going to be nurtured. Those eulogies reached you. Indra, who drank Som, also consumed them. 
O earth! The smell of yours in men, horses, heroes, antelopes, elephants and girls, made me endowed with the smell of all of them. There should be no one to hate me. (25)
In the hands of Indra, who has all kinds of food to please the five types of people like Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras and Nishads, may Indra destroy those who rebel against us by becoming a thunderbolt. 
This is it! You are the janita (born) of agni. You are located in the testis (semen). You are (similar to) Urvashi. You are (similar to) age. You are (similar to) Pururva. I churn you out with Gayatri verses. I churn you with trishtup verses. I churn you with jagati verses. (2)
This cow, which weakens age in all ways, moves the ears. This cow discards its urine and becomes the cause of decay i.e. destruction. (11)
We welcome you who give you the knowledge of a husband with good brothers and sisters and a good mind. Just as melon is released from its vine, so I deliver you from your father's family, I do not separate you from the husband. (17)
O Mon! You become the food of agni. You get it as the food of the path. You are dear to Banshavarti and Som. O Mon! You are our friend, dear to all of you and satisfying to all. (50)
Indra defeated the Kiwi Asura by his own strength through war and perfected the earth-sky from all around. Indra attains growth by the force of the drunk Somras. Indra put half the som in his stomach and divided half to the other devas. May the truth and the bright somras permeate the true and bright Indra. 
O agni! You are enlightened with samidha. You are oriented towards people in the same way as a calf is oriented towards a cow to drink milk. In the Usha period, you are conscious like being the consciousness of beings. Just as birds go to the sky, so you go to heaven. (24)
O Lord Indra! You are a destroyer of vritras and performing hundreds of sacrifices. You come. Please drink somers. Your sons have prepared somers for you by crushing them with stones. We have accepted you in the upayam for Goman Indra Dev. That's your native place. (5)
O agni! Give us lots of money with cows and horses. You irrigate the sky with water and put the merchant into business. 
The agni which was served by the gods and made before and the beloved hosts of the bridegroom, who are irrigated with ghee, those agnis with their brightness, the birds, the moving snakes, etc., and the real form of the world, quickly produced the world. 
What all beings consider as day is the night of ignorance for the wise, and what all creatures see as night is the day for the introspective sage.
One of the two or three herbs that roam in heaven, one of those that roams on earth, should remove the violence of Subandhu. O brother! Let the heavens and the vast earth remove your evils and do not do anything wrong. 
Where the sun rises and where it sets, I consider it to be the greatest. No one transgresses him, that is, no one is greater than him. (16)
Organ differences, organ fever, visceral and dysentery - all these are glass-related diseases. We completely remove them from you. (5)
O Vasa Gau! You entered Varun's abdomen. After this, Brahma called you. He knows your eyes. (22)
May the navel of the cloud automatically rain down the water that is good to the local wonderful, comprehensive and countless people for our confirmation and prosperity. 
O enemy-destroying Ashwinikumaro! By your grace, do not let violent females and male animals grieve me. Don't give your money to anyone else. This is your praise, it is part of the universe and it is the character of the Somras. 
O divine powers located in the Supreme Power! Please know the form of the host. When the host goes down the path of Devyana (known to the gods), please fulfill the wishes of this host. (60)
Hey Mon! I do your yajnakarmas as soon as king Varuna. Your speed is huge and serious. You are pure as a dear friend and as revered as Aryamadeva. 
O agni! You have been born at the ultimate place. We law praises for you. You are sitting in the best place. The original location from which you appear. Make it compatible with yajna. We dedicate sacrifices to you from the committees. (75)
Rudra, who is holy, furious and happy, is lonely. They hold a sharp armament in their hands. 
O commanders of generous qualities! Get up with your flags and walk to war. You get ready for war by wearing armor etc. O god with the shape of serpents! O demons! You also run after our enemies. (1)
It was! You should worship the same Tvashta Dev, who has made the divine-earth like the mother of the gods, and has made them a variety of beings. You are the one who eats today, you are a scholar and the best sacrificer. 
May the earth protect you through heaven. The agni god who sustains the world should follow you through iron and take strength in you through the water obtained from the vines. (5)
After the transfusion of agni, the initiation of Som Yag, the endangered yajna with mantras that fulfill the wishes of the host and Somyag are dependent on The Brahm in the form of Uchishta. (8)
 O Mon! When you cross the wool of the sheep and go to the filtering urn, then your streams bring joy. By becoming pure, you start shining like a bright sun god. 
Pusha, the god of childbirth, separates the womb from the bondage of jarayu. We are also opening the vaginal route for spontaneous delivery. You also relax the vaginal passage for a happy delivery. O God! You should also push the face of the womb down and motivate her to get out. (3)
In the upper part, all the gods should protect this gem named Astra, who is filled with ghee, containing honey, rich in milk, full of thousands of powers due to being attached to all the gods, protected by a hundred forces due to being protected by Indra's armor, who provides food, gives pleasure, facilitates, gives food and milk etc. to the man holding the gem. (6)
O Som, the best of those who attained the yajna and who knows the path of the virtuous ones well! Conquer the great grain and strength to give us money today. 
O Desertion! You are divine and special. You remove people's sufferings. You are a good protector of people's cows. (31)
O Gods! You are in heart, mind, heaven and sun. You raise the yajna, give divinity to the host. Give heaven to the host. (25)
With usha's inspiration, the darkness of the night was destroyed and the sky began to shine. After this, usha's light was born. Seeing the truth and miscovernance of human beings, the sun reached the great mountain. 
I am saying by taking a bow from the hand of the dead Kshatriya for protection, speed and strength. O dead person! You stay here. Let us be the children of adornment and conquer all the enemies in this world. 
O Indra! I may be without fear because of God who is as fierce as you, who attacks enemies, who undermines sins, and who does violence against enemies. 
They are the ones who shine and harden, they drop the cake. (13)
O agni! You are the protector of all, with heavenly qualities, who removes darkness quickly and is ignited every day. You are born in forests and medicines. You are born here of humans. You are holy. (27)
 O agni! You make our mind welfare, remove sinful thoughts and bad tendencies. We praise you for welfare. You make us stable and give us a lot of money. 
They aspire for som yajna. Annayukta Som came out of Dronakalash and made his residence in the host's house and inspired the wisdom of the stota. 
Under the influence of the same voice, all the clouds rain water and the creatures of all the four directions take life. From it is produced the water that gives birth to all beings. 
We greeted jupiter who said many of the riches in order and those who have become heavenly. They give us money with cows, horses, children and services. 
O agni! I will serve you by your care deeds. I will serve you by giving you a greeting and praising you. O godly agni! The Brahmists call you my best-wise protector. O agni! Be pleased for charity. 
O Indra! Your bow is a many-arrow thrower, well-formed and pleasing, and your arrow is of gold. Your arms are delightful, well-embellished and violative in war. 
O furious God! Clear all the way to the annalaam, destroy the obstacles and complete our yajna. 
 O Indra! Just as a headless snake is blind, so become our unfriendly. Those of those who escape the flame of agni, please destroy those remaining enemies yourself. 
O Indra! Increase this host excessively. By your grace, he should become the one who subdues everyone among his brothers and becomes free himself. You make it rich and take its life to old age. (2)
O agni! You have the best money for us. You complete our distinguished yagna. You hold gems for us. You drink somers according to the season. (21)
The messengers of the agni gods living in the three places of krantadarshi and earth, be enlightened and decorated and worship thirty-three gods in this yajna and fulfill our desire. Fire kill all enemies. 
In the kingdom of King Parikshit, humans are so happy that they get barley to pay their abdominal bill. (10)
 O Indra! You are blissful to both heaven and earth. You have competition against bandits. You destroy bandits. 
Suva, the source of the whole and home from ghrit, is also Brahman. Brahma has dug the yagyavedi. Brahma is the principle of yajna. The Ritvij who prepares the Havi is also Brahman. Sacrifice should be best for Brahman, who attains impregnation. (2)
O Sahadevi or son of Apamarg Nishad, a mantradrashta Brahmin named Karna has used you. To protect the host, you travel like an army. In the country where you are found, there is no fear of innovation. (2)
Being protected from Indra's armor, this insulated gem has one hundred and one powers and thousands of pranas i.e. force. Be able to attack all enemies like a tiger and defeat them. May my enemy, whoever wishes to fight you with mani, be defeated. O swami! May all gods protect you. (5)
O Aschinikumaro, the leader of the yagnas! Where has any host worshipped the chariot, which walks in the morning towards your glorious yagna, which pervades, brings money to all men every day and is moving, like me? 
The agni generated by the churning is omniscient! The regular, the knower of yajnakarma, the meritorious, the meritorious, the praises of the hotas and adorned with the gifts of fruit. These hymns and omniscient agnis were made by the gods the havan-bearers in the yagnas. 
You come. You provide all the pleasures of heaven for human beings. With your grace, we can live happily. (18)
O agni! You become ignited by shobhan-samidahas. The adhyryu kush spreads. 
The anger of indra, who had various words and enemies, came out to be watered down to establish his anger on the giant enemy forces. The furious Indra forcefully destroyed the water-holding and surrounded by darkness. 
Whoever knows this, his poison is dear. He irrigates his brother's son. (4)
The unruly Mons, who play a highly intoxicating, watergroup-like game, drop their streams into the kalash from the dashapavithra made of sheep's hair. 
O Indra! Dip your body in the som that has been squeezed for you after the havya grain. May that Somras please you worthy of sompan. 
The mother of asuras is its soup, Dev Mata Aditi is going to catch that soup and discuss air rice and husk. (4)
O night! Make us overcome all the evils of all nights by your vehicles, which are fast-horned and very fast moving bulls. (2)
Adhwaryu, who works quickly and squeezes somras, has installed somras in the yagna to drink Indra and the air. O Indra and Air! The Adhwaryu people who wish for the gods have prepared for you the best part of somras in this yajna through their karma. 
The water in the earth is already full. The second water gets into it. They take the form of water river and please the fence of the sea. Pure water is situated by surrounding the sacred and radiant apanple. 
Protect me in the upward direction with Jupiter's vishwe devas. They should protect me in the act of keeping my foot and in the place of keeping my foot. Let them protect me and serve my interest in the city where I go. I surrender to Jupiter. This sacrifice is for Jupiter. (10)
Aditya i.e. sun protect me from dyulok. Protect agni from my land. May Indra and Agni protect me from the front. May Ashwinikumar give me happiness from all around. Protect me in the agni slant directions without violence. Agni Adi Dev, who creates the earth and ghosts, should be a shield for me from all sides. (15)
This dhenu is pervaded with reverence, full of swadha and protected by initiation. It is distinguished by mind. The Kshatriya's look at it is like death. (3)
O Indra, the horseman and the rainer, named Hari! Knowing your determination to come to the yagna, I offer you the som squeezed for your drink. Be pleased with all the praises and deeds in this yajna by being empowered and admired. 
Hey Mon! Our stones desire your friendship. You kill the over-eating pany. He's definitely bad. 
The odan form charu mixed with ground wheat and curd remained located in the west direction near the bones in this karma. Out of the gods like Indra etc., who created heaven for the ghosts received this sacrament, we should continue to please the current gods here. (17)
The dyava-prithvis, which are full of truth and yajnakarma, hold agni and increase the infantile agni like a parent surrounded by time limits. Human beings are happy to meditate in their minds on the agni of the great and meritorious Vaishnavar, like the navel of all immovable and movable beings. 
May the water inviting the black bird, that is, the coe, coming down from the sky, which has hit my limb with wings, protect me from all the sins caused by it. (1)
O ghost! I call upon your age for the business of pranan i.e. breathing and apanaan i.e. leaving the air. May your mind receive a new body born out of sanskar. After this, you reach the ancestors. (23)
The wise Indra, the wise Indra, the worshipers of the hawai, and the hosts who seek the grace of agni, who receive the yajna through their karma- bhava, the same leaders who permeate Indra and the agni-related yajnakamas and call them again and again, just as the horse soon covers the battlefield. 
 O agni! You are capable and amazing. We call upon you to gain force for war. 
The sky-like net of commander Indra is very huge. O Indra! Trap in this trap and kill the enemies in such a way that not one of them is left. (6)
From the imaginary home-like yajna of that omniscient man, Rik and Sam were born, from which verses were born, and Yaju originated. 
I destroy the white marks that have been produced on the body due to leprosy originating from the bones, from the skin and from the intermediate flesh of both of them, with the effect of the mantra. (4)
O Agni! Just as the Son finds the Father easily, so we too can easily get you. You dwell near us for our welfare. 
O Som Dev! Our enemy could never reach his wife because he was running away from his place. O God of Death! Protect us in this yajna. The stunning enemy coming from the front could not get me. Even sins that hinder the path of fame and progress cannot be found by us. (1)
O agni! You are Annapati. Please make us disease-free and give us nutrition. O agni! Please give nourishment to the donor. O agni! Please hold energy for two legs and four steps. (83)
These heroes are called trijanma i.e. three-time takers due to the rites of birth and taking initiation of war. Make these heroes delicious. O Indra! You enter these heroes and be ready in the struggle. (6)
Indra had killed thirty thousand demons with his armaments by his power for the welfare of Dabhiti. 
O friend, agni! When you set up in the eastern part of the yajna vedi and do their messengers in the devayagna in the present, your flames shine in the same way as the waves of the roaring ocean shine. 
Aspiring to fight like a horse, radiant, squeezed for the gods, spread across characters and purified by the dashapavitra, Soma runs around. 
I had given the land called Vetsu to the conqueror of the thirsty Qutsa, in the same way that the Father gives his property to the Son. I also gave people named Tughar and Swadibh under the possession of the Dogs. I make the host king. Just as the Father gives to the Son, so I give beloved things to the Host. 
O Indra! You should be worshiped by us and give horses, chariots, cows etc. of the king who wishes for victory. O Indra! You are going to wear a thunderbolt in your hands. (2)
O agni! You yourself become bright and fulfill the wishes of this host and make it prosperous and be excited for his good fortune. Your servants should not be destroyed. O agni! Your Ritvij Brahmins are successful, not others. (2)
O son of power Indra! The yajnas you hold, you quickly complete them. O Lord Indra! May your character protect us, may your wealth hold us, and let the yagna, mantra and brahma sentence be present near you. 
 O Indra! Your teeth are green. Your horses are also green. You are the best gopalak. Learned poets praise you. 
 O agni! We invite you to pray. You come to the Yagya Mandap to bless us all. We are repeatedly inviting you, the destroyer of the wicked, with beautiful prayers. 
May aditi, the master friend of wealth and mother of Varuna, protect us from sin. Let us get the light without destruction at the fullest speed. Today we ask the gods for the same protection. 
O god! Wipe the money with fibers. Nurture money for money. Have affection for shrutis. Strengthen the medicines for the drugs. Strengthen the body with the best body. Be stunning for Tejaswita. (7)
I request Prajapati, who created the foster gods of the subjects, who made the child born from the mother's womb young and gave life to the father of the womb, for the fulfillment of my desire. He has known this Jyotihom etc. yajna with his heart. O Brahman! Tell me that Prajapati. Tell me in the yajna karma that fulfills this desire. (1)
O agni! You are born by attaining the yajna defeating your other radiances. You are praiseworthy, radiant, bright, beloved of beings and guests of human beings. 
O aschinikumaro! Your whip smells of the sweat of the horses and he hurts with the word. While pushing the horses with such a whip, you come to the yagna early and irrigate it with somras. 
 For Indra to drink, someras with green radiance is being crushed with stones 
The Stotas call Indra to get partiality by seeing the wealth of the enemies. Those whom Indra is biased are victorious. 
The man who considers the heritage part of the gods as his most beloved, he gets the wrath of the animals due to the suppression of the Brahmins. (21)
Soma is the swami of the creepers, may he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in prestige, in resolve, in Devahuvan karma and in the form of blessings. (7)
The workmen perform the spectacular som snoring like greenish, great and friend and shine like the sun. 
O jealous fire! We call you. You bring here the deities worthy of yajna. You give thousands of types of food. 
O farmers! You add the solution. Keep gambling on the bull's shoulders. You plough the field. You sow seeds. Praise for a good harvest in creation. Get ready with food. The food is well cooked. (68)
O Ashchini Kumaro! You are the presiding deity of Lakshmi. You consume it through your powers and do not let it fall down from the sky. In the chariot, the huge horses and food that carry you are always found in your body. (2)
O Indra! Make us cows, horses and gold goers. We are rich in grain. 
 O Mon! You are intelligent. You also give the host such intelligence that they can go on the right path. You feed everyone like a king. You rain like rain from heaven
We will take Varuna, who has an eye on powerful leaders and countless people, to this yagna. 
O great Indra! You have made the earth especially perfect by your great deeds, have stabilized the vast sky, and you have possessed the earth and the heavens as the parents of the gods. The earth-sky is very ancient and the originator of udaka. 
O stotao! Speech is your friend. Exploit him and call those who weaken indra enemies. Prepare the somerasa which is as pure as the treasure containing wealth for Indra. (2)
Aditi protect our animals during the day. Aditi, who lives the same from the outside and inside, protect our animals at night. They protect us from the ever-growing sin. 
O God! Listen to our prayers. Please come. We request you to sit on the seat of Kush here. Please sit on that seat. You have been absorbed in the urn for all the gods. This is the original place of you and the gods. (34)
O splendid agni! When you are born from dry wood in the form of Arani being ignited, then only can the host starts the yajna. They attain divinity by serving you, the deathless agni, through the hymns. 
O ancient and glorious Indra! You hear the praise and give more food to the potable hymn of wealth. Give him water, herbs, poisonous forests, cows, horses and servants. 
I can always attain long-lived people through duloka, that is, the door who lives in heaven, born near the gods. (7)
I want to serve the agni for the attainment of excellent happiness. Those who go to call the agni gods, the sons of stones and those who bear the yagna. 
Both God and man made Agne, the protector and the possessor of all by power, a means of yajna. The great son of Vayu and the priest kiss agni like the sun. 
Amavasya and Purnamasi are the protectors of him. The mind is his chariot of war. Breathing and exhaling are the horses of his chariot. Prana is his charioteer. Kirti comes close to him and gets fame and fame. (14)
O Indra and Varuna! The nine sages of the Angiragotrian, who are trapped in the midst of the enemy army in the battlefield, and sitting with their feet squeezed, call you for protection. O masters of divine and earthly wealth and are worthy to be called with joy! We call you. 
We find prestige among Kshatriyas. We find prestige in the nation. We find prestige in horses. We find prestige in cows. We find prestige in the wings. We find prestige in spirit. We find prestige in the soul. We find reputation in confirmation. We find prestige in heaven. We find prestige in the earth. We get prestige in yajna. (10)
This is the hymn! Praise Varuna and more learned maruts for getting more money. They protect the animals of humans just like cows. Varuna kills all our enemies. 
O Agni God, the drops of Aj's odan that he establishes among the Brahmins and the subjects! All of them know us in the world of the saints and in the confluence of parts. (19)
O Indra! Let us submit to you like those who give you more quantities to protect you. O strongest Indra Dev! The wealth we desire, give us the same wealth of the same brave sons. 
The sun strengthened the heavens and the earth. The same sun stabilized the sky without sorrows. The same sun created space and wild pleasures. The gods have attained nectar from him. (7)
O Yaayu! The knower of the yajnas like Agnishtom, the ritvijs and the hosts, etc., we praise you with pure somras through the sanskar. 
Hey Ritvijo! Squeeze the thousand streams, the desireful, the water-booster and the beloved mon for the gods. The glorious, true, great and king som produced in the water grows from water. 
O agni! All of you come to the yagna of the host who gives the havya with the gods. That is why we pray to those who call the gods. 
 O Indra! You are heroic. We have heard your fame many times. We should also get the fame of another great god like you. 
The air is as dynamic as the mind and Indra is as fast as the mind and Indra is a thousand-eyed. Wise people call them to protect themselves. 
Get to know the agni, who is luminous, habitable and universal in nature like the morning Sun. The rays of agni itself, carrying the fire and spreading through the entrance of the Yagyagriha, spread in the visible sky. 
Look at the forms of a woman with an evil nature in the clothes of the head in the striped clothes and in the clothes on all the organs. It is Brahma who makes these forms bright. (28)
O life and your air! Just as the bulls that pull the cart enter the knot, so you enter the body of a man who wants age. That age-seeking man should become the fund of old age. He should live and attain growth in this world without the obstacle of death. (5)
My word roars like rain and thunders like a cloud. I bind your serpent with my fierce word. Just as darkness is destroyed at sunrise, so this man becomes free from poison and becomes alive. (3)
 O Varuna! You give us your power. Please give us all the wealth and kshatra radiance spread across the earth and the sky. 
We speak praises by aiming at the most radiant, the summoners of the gods, the nurturer of the world and the most sacrificing agni. Hosts speak only praise for your sacrifice by exploiting holy milk from the trunks of cows and not throwing it into the house sanctifying the food of somras. 
Sarma said, "This is panio! I don't know the relationship between sister and brother. This relationship is known to the terrible indra and the group of angiras. The gods of the cows have sent me safely. That's why I came. You leave this gogroup and run away. 
We destroy all the worms that are sharp-eyed, those who are black, those who have sharp arms and those who are of many forms, with the power of mantras. (5)
Saraswati Devi and Ashwinikumars encouraged Indra Dev. Indra Dev's fame increased. Ashwini Kumars established vision in the eyes of Indra Dev. Indra Dev is rich. Hold money for us. Those interested in money should please perform a welfare yagna for him. (51)
O agni! The army you protected with the help of which we received the cows, give us the same defense money to get the money. 
O Indra! The circle that stopped your great waters and slept in space, you hit him in the middle of the moving waters. 
O you of praise Indra! The harsh work you performed in the past, after squeezing the soma, the scholars describe them. 
O Lord God! You are a money holder. We perform yajna for you. Prajapati is a nidhivan b foster. Please be the best child and wealth for the agni, tvashta god Vishnu host. We offer sacrifices to all these gods. (17)
O Indra! Today, follow us through many defenses i.e. defense means. O rich and brave Indra! Please us completely with praiseworthy defense tools. The enemies who hate us should fall face down. Give up your life to the shrew we hate. (1)
O Indra, who is capable of the saints and hymns! You are called by the psalms in the Great Battle. The vajradhari Indra, who is called to receive a son and grandson, is especially revered. 
O ancient agni generated by force! The old yagyakars ignite you well to get shelter. You are the most sacrificial, worthy of the yagna, the master of various grains, the householder and the worthy of being chosen. 
O you radiant, Indra, the most furious of the gods and the one who defeats the enemies! We call you to protect ourselves. O Indra, who gives the abode! Drive away all the demons and make our enemies easily defeatable. 
May Saraswati Devi increase my wealth, milk and food. Goddess Siniwali of Amavasya and this Udumbar Mani should provide wealth etc. (10)
O Ashwinikumaro! You are the chief of all gods like the horns of animals. Walk at the same speed as the horse's hooves, you both come before us. O enemies and capable of your deeds, Aschinikumaro! You come to us like chakwa-chakvi or two chariot owners. 
O agni that worships friends! Vasus have instilled strength in you and accepted your yajna. You bring the bandits out of their place, creating more speed for the yagyakar. 
O all the dear Ashwinikumaro! You come to our yajna. The yajna-vedi on earth is said to be your place. Just as a fast-moving horse is quiet in its place, so be the horse with a soothing back. 
O rain giving Indra! For you every year, the delicious Somas are filtered through the Dashapavitra. The giver of hundreds and thousands of wealth, the giver of more wealth, remains situated in the eternal and powerful Soma Yagya. 
The asura named Krishna, who was quick and carrying ten thousand armies with him, lived on the banks of the River Anshumati. Indra discovered that screaming asura with his wisdom and destroyed his slaughtering armies for the benefit of human beings. 
God is the husband of all bhuvanas. He is the master of the mind of the world. He is the master of Vishva's arrows. He is the guardian of everyone's words and is vishruta (famous) among the gods. He is the god of gods. They are the protectors of those who follow the path of religion. Divinity seekers provide protection to hair. (18)
 O Marudagano! You all have the same sentiment. The cows are of the same jati. They move in every direction and express love by licking each other. 
Just as women adorn and make the husband tired, in the same way, the huge goddesses with divine doors should be easy to strive for the gods. (30)
 O Indra! You are very glorious and unique. At the time of the destruction of Vritrasura, you strengthened and expanded the earth. He also fixed heaven well. Your power is amazing. 
O host! This yajna should be full of various stotras, Shobhan's son, grandson etc. and you should get it. It is a gift of ajya shobhan ahuti. (6)
O agni! You are glorious and prosperous. We want to protect you. We worship friends and Varun Dev for our welfare. May we attain superiority by the grace of Savita Dev. That is, become superior. We choose you to give strength to the gods. (17)
O fire by all! Call the strange and beloved Indra in our yajna. O Shobhan Jihwa wale! This praiseworthy voice of mine came before you. 
 O Mon! You are the best karma 
We went to the district of Asmati, admired by the bright and great men of the Asmati king, wearing salutations. 
O Indra! Wear this selectable and squeezed soma in your stomach. Deepthy Som is your special part. (5)
O ye of the most young, the son of strength, and the agni called from all sides! You are truthful and worthy of yajna. 
O Mon! You are bright (very) bright. You are going to lead Manisha to the best path. Patient with your love, the ancestors performed the best deeds of sacrifice etc. and instilled love for Somras among the gods. (52)
Hey Ritvijo! May Indra, by his successful protection, be able to fight the destructive battle of the evil-minded opponents for you and us and may he break them. The veganvati army that our devouring enemies had sent, it itself was destroyed. She neither came to us nor did she return to our opponents. 
O agni! You burn the sabotage monsters with your pervading and sharp swiftness. Beat them with pits whose front part is warm. 
We donate you to east direction, agni, black snake and aditya. Protect this man until we leave. Get it as honorable till old age. May our old age give it death. May we attain bliss by being heavenly with this ripe odan. (55)
Indra of this present period originated from the Indra who was in the former period. From this Soma, Soma, Agni from Agni, Tvashta from Tvashta and Dhata from Dhata were born. (9)
Varuna embraces the nights. The visible Varuna holds the world through his maya while making progress. Those who wish for Varuna's fast increase the yagna of all the three periods in the morning, afternoon and evening. They eliminate all enemies. 
The gods appointed Mahadev, who wore a bow from the top corner, as the one who performed your rituals. Whoever knows this, Mahadev protects him from the corner of the upward direction. Mahadev does not do violence to men and animals who adapt to it. (13)
O agni of praise! Sit on the cushions in front of all the great hymns and accept the greetings of the human beings. 
 Someras is sweet and increases the strength of the gods, the host praises it. Purifying in space, this green somerus shows its strength in the form of a stream like fast horses. 
Ten fingers are movable, dripping and intoxicating to sanctify this mon for Indra's sake. 
O agni! Both wings of you are ajar. Always ready to fly. With both wings, you destroy the demons. You should go to the world of hair to do the best deeds from those two wings, where the ancient sages already born have gone. (52)
The guardians of the gentlemen, gather in the battle and destroy the enemies with body force and complete the great sky with their brightness, indra increases the force of agni with the abrasive somras. 
He walked in the direction. (16)
"I have received the Sutlej and the great Saubhagyavati Beas river, which is flowing at the same place as the cows who wish to lick the calves, aimed at the sea." 
Just as this region, full of praiseworthy food items, adornment and animal housing, is dear and pleasant, in the same way, this girl should get happiness and prosperity by making happy things with her husband. (4)
 O Ashwinikumaro! This sweet someras has been prepared in the yagyas for you. This somersus we prepared the day before. You consume it. You give the best money to the host who gives the promise. 
O Agni God who is appointed first among all things! Bear the burden of this work I have done. You are a physician who provides medicines. May we get cows, horses and humans in a disease-free state through you. (1)
Keep this child away from pathatable pain and save Indra from the actions of sin. I separate it from the sins causing diseases and sorrows and tuberculosis and make it a long life. (2)
 O agni! Please increase the life of our grains. You increase our age. Increase the life of our force. You take the wicked away from us. 
I make Indra powerful by equipping my speeches through ancient stotras. (2)
The Indra whose expansion the sky and the earth could not find, the water flow over the sky, the water flow over the sky, which could not know the end of indra's glory, O Indra! The entire animal community is in the same way under your own control. 
Ashwinikumaras and Goddess Saraswati increased the might and splendour of Indra Dev and the host with cows, horses and hives.
The shashisi who knows the distressed, the thirsty and the rich, thinks of charity in her mind for the happiness of the gods. 
O agni! We collect fuel for your yajna and give you knowledge by doing darsapoornamas yajna on every festival. You complete the yajna to extend our lifetime. You have become our friend, let no one violence us anymore. 
Songs named Prishni are performing the rites of this someras. These songs of Indra inspire his arrows and thunderbolts. O host! After these nights you will be established over your kingdom. (2)
 O Mon! By your grace, the debt ends. Please be inspired to destroy enemies in the same way as the mighty Indra was inspired to destroy Vritrasura. You provide us with good nutritious food. 
O hosts! Look at indra's enlightened and detailed bravery and pay homage to it. Indra received cows, horses, herbs, water and forests. 
Being sewn on the dashapavittra, the mons drip as waves of water and move at a fast speed over the jhuloka. 
Indra, the master of the horsemen who have been buried in the earth and collected a lot of wealth, who lifts a lot of wealth, who is vajradhari, the shobhan nasika and the lord of the horses named Hari, fulfills what Indra wants through yajnaadi. 
We call Indra, who conquers heaven and is pleased with sompan, near the squeezed somras. O Indra! Get to know this sacrifice of ours and come here. We have come to the refuge of the enemy,the conqueror Indra. 
O Indra! You are going to shake the enemies, so you pour water with waves like the flowing Sira River on the earth. Oh, Shur! You have followed the kings of Yadu and Turvasu while completing the ocean with water and did good to them. 
Indra with green chin is thus properly summonable. Whether Indra himself comes or not, but gives money to the stoetas. Indra, thus born, being the most powerful, kills great enemies and demons. 
O agni! Give me fast, child and age, so that the gods, indra and the sage-group may know my yajna. 
O Indra! We priests living under your protection should be strong and full of grain. 
 Soma is the father of Swarglok, Prithvilok, Agni, Surya, Indra and Vishnu. Som is being refined. 
Ashwinikumar and Saraswati Devi increased Indra Dev from that havi. (68)
O Indra! You are famous for killing Sru in famous wars with humans and maruts and are going to experience the joy of fighting with the brave. You give food to the saints who praise. Just as man serves the horse, so the ritwijs serve the dynamic and the annadata Indra. You listen to our call. 
Indra, with shobhan nasika, had drunk the somarous given by a well-to-do sage named Sudax, who met the roasted barley and was settling in the characters. 
O children with upanayana rites! The tongue formed by Prajapati's ten-fingered hands moves ahead of the words. Saraswati has a adhishthan in it. I touch you with the same curative hands of Prajapati. (7)
Many enemy soldiers with elephants, horses and chariots should be unable to win us and lose. Small number of enemies cannot dare to come before us. Just as the upper branches of bamboo are weak, the enemies who have become rich after being defeated by us, in the same way become without prosperity. (3)
O richer Indra! You water your abdomen from the squeezed somerus. O Lord Indra of tears named Hari! We know them to be the one who defeated the enemy in the struggle, not to be defeated by others and to suppress others. 
Agni purified itself in three sacred forms by knowing the beautiful light well from the mind. By those forms, he made himself most delightful and then saw the earth and the sky. 
This is the earth! You give us food, money and animals to get the intoxicating Somras. 
These agnis are leading. They are first meditated in the yajna. It is the worshiper of the hosts in the yagna. They are especially distinguished in yagyas. These agnis have been repeatedly established in the forests by sages like Apnavan, Bhrigu, Viruruchu etc. (6)
The lord agni of the revered cow etc. wealth goes in front of the devayagna while providing the desired things. The masters of the owners also resort to the shelter altar of fire money. Hosts with stones in their hands to perform the som kutne serve the fire. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Stretch out your arms and water the land on which our cows run for our lives. You make us famous among humans. These young men! Listen to our call. 
O Ashwinikumaro! At the same time when your chariot is pulled by horses in heaven admired by various scriptures, we praise you. 
O evil as a thunderbolt and as hostile as an arrow! The host who worships you, he holds the power and force and conquers all the enemies in the battle. With your help, let us defeat two kinds of enemies, dasas and Aryans, you are the producers of power and the mighty. 
O Mon! You should be with your ancestors and expand the pleasures of heaven. You should be with the ancestors and expand the happiness of the earth. We make a provision for you. You and I are rich too. (54)
O best of the Bharatas, know that sacrifice, which is performed for material benefit, or with hypocritical aim, to be in the mode of passion.
O Indra! When the agni is ignited and somerus is extinguished, your carrying horses should bring you to this yagna. We put our mind in you and call again and again. You come to our vast prosperity. 
The soma, consisting of strong and bright rays, goes with adhwaryu etc. as the lord of all the flowing juices. 
O agni! Your beautifully decadent rays together with the maruts chastise the clouds for the purpose of rain. Then the cloud of Krishna varna and rainshine thunders and comes with a sweet white drop, then the water falls and the cloud thunders. 
 O Mon! To get the host pleasure on earth, clean and filter your juice. 
Let indra destroy the demon who calls me araakshas a demon and sanctifies himself. He should be inferior to all beings. 
 Indra is beautiful chin. Even powerful demons and mortal humans 
The Supreme Lord said: Now listen, O Arjun, how, with the mind attached exclusively to me, and surrendering to me through the practice of bhakti yog, you can know me completely, free from doubt.
Nachiketa said, "The beautiful leaf tree on which Yama enjoys with the gods, it is the desire of our father, the husbands of the people, that I should go to the same tree and meet my forefathers, 
O agni! We surround you with the fungi of the sea. You are going to make us holy. You be welfare towards us. (4)
 Agnis that fully know the path of dharma are appearing. Through these, the rules of yajna are fulfilled. Agni is going to give progress to Arya. Please accept our prayers being made in the form of speech. 
 Just as milch cows that satisfy humans with their milk go to their enclosure, they filter and go to the Soma Yagya site filled in a pitcher. 
O man with the best knowledge! Because of your non-participation in the yagnakarma, I have come away after losing to the enemies in the war. My yajna-free has made you angry. You come into my body to give strength. 
The Brahmaudan from which the months were born, in which thirty days are located like the 'Hey' of the wheel, the Brahmaudan from which the Samvatsar of twelve months was born, the Brahmaudan from which I could not get even when the night and day were close, with the help of the same Odan, I should cross death. (4)
May no one escape between gods and men, and those who own the two-legged men and four-legged animals of this world, may they save us from sin. (5)
It pierces the brothers of the father of the brahmin's cow stealer and humiliates the brothers of the mother. (5)
O Indra! We will read these stotras as bright as agni again and again in front of the psalms. 
Those who are brought to the yajna are the water. (5)
O Manu! Come to defeat the enemies by crushing and destroying elephants, horses, etc. of this king's enemy's army. O more powerful manu! No one can stop your force. O Manu, who works without help and controls everyone! You make all people independent. (3)
Stop your contaminated disease by containing the mantra that irritates the agni god demons. This disease is spreading in your uterus. (11)
O king! I make indra of great excellence your friend. With the inspiration of that Indra, your warriors will be victorious, never defeated. The demon who has made you as good as a bull among other men among cows has made you superior among men and kings. (5)
O Arjun, know me to be the beginning, middle, and end of all creation. Amongst sciences I am the science of spirituality, and in debates I am the logical conclusion.
Vishandhi means the god who fascinates the army and the snake named Arbudi hurt our enemies in many ways. This is Shakhipati Indra! Give us such power the way we kill people belonging to those saints in thousands. (23)
One cannot achieve freedom from karmic reactions by merely abstaining from work, nor can one attain perfection of knowledge by mere physical renunciation.
Hey Aditya! The path by which you go to the yagna is easy and unblemished. There is no such thing in this yajna that you hate. 
O agni! We hold and ignite you like Manu. O embellished agni! You perform the yajna of the hosts who wish for the gods. 
O agni! By Your grace, we will cross all enemies like a stream of water. 
Today, King Yama should automatically build the bodies of our father's ancestors i.e. Pitamah etc. and the ancestors born in our gotra are entered in the vast space. (59)
Usha wakes up some of the crooked sleeping people to go to their desired place, some for enjoyment, some for yajna and some for money. It illuminates all the eyebrows for the specific light of the little beholders due to darkness. 
They are the red-colored, strange and word-making deserts who come from the high part of the jhuloka by their chariots. 
O farmers! Cover the ploughs with lice and place the lice on the shoulders of the bulls. Sow seeds like wheat, barley, etc. in this growing field. Our food plants should be loaded with grains. Soon those plants will ripen and become worthy of the touch of the tree. (2)
We call Indra, who erects all the people, who makes a roaring sound for the sake of the yagna, who gives food to the people by the rain by taking the haavya, and praiseworthy of the people by the best hymns. 
O Ashwini Kumaro, give us the wealth that is in space and heaven and the wealth that the fifth jati slaves named Nishad have. (2)
The two kings who keep the earth stable are moving at a fast pace like a wheel. O earth! I am a Brahmin, the knower of Atharvaveda, and I offer food for you. (5)
In the yajna called Parmeshti, a mantra is being sacrificed for Prajapati. Offer a mantra called Andhasa for Som. Sacrifice for Savita Dev in her name. Sacrifice in his name for Vishwakarma Dev. Sacrifice for Pusha Dev in his name. (54)
O Indra! Hold in your belly the soma, which is worthy of choice, squeezed, bright and lives with you in heaven. 
May our welfare and our fear be removed. Greetings to us for day and night. (7)
O God of Water! We have travelled to you to conquer decay. Please do the welfare of all of us. (16)
Hey Mon! Be pure to Indra, who seeks the sings of the Angiragotrian sages, the great and the one who sees the karma of the human beings, and enter the belly of Indra. 
The friends and Varuna appear in the yajna and are purely strong. We call them to drink somers. 
O Indra! You alone fought with all the demons who hindered the gods and killed those violent ones. 
O Ashwini Kumar! Let the darkness that hinders all behaviour come to us. Let the night of light despise that darkness. Give us this kind of light night. (4)
O Swami of Wealth Indra! At the time of your arrival, they chant mantras named Ritvij uktha. Those who invoke you and destroy those who do not perform yajna also speak mantras called Ukth. Choose us who pronounce the ukthas to give you fruits. (9)
O agni! You are all-faced and omnipresent. You destroy our sins. (6)
I go to the yagna, looking at the hosts and separating the dasas and the Aryans. I drink the somas of the cook and the somras squeezer and see the wise host. Indra is the best. 
O Indra! Wishing to drink somras, you come to this yagna with your friend Maruts and drink the soma we have squeezed out. O Indra called by many! As soon as you were born, all the gods distinguished you for the great war. 
 O Indra! You are the master of wealth. Listen to this voice of the host. Vasishtha Rishi is worshiping you by singing the praise. You accept their prayers, Brahmani and Havi. 
O agni! You are well-nourished and adorned by the Ritvijas. O sahasrajit! You are poets and messengers, you bring our havya. 
From which part of this God does agni glow? From which part of this does the air move? The moon is formed from which part of it? Which part does that moon measure from this universe? (2)
 Agni is constantly the giver of food and strength. They want our welfare. We offer havi to the agni god to convey havi to the gods. They are our protectors in wars and progressors for us. May they be the protectors of our sons too. We worship them. 
For entertainment, people who follow men, dance in laughing, low varna people should be appointed in killing water animals. A rural astrologer and a behavioural skilled person should be appointed for welcome satisfaction. Beanaists, percussionists and vocalists should be appointed for dance. A clapist should be appointed for pleasure. (20)
Kaal revealed the yajna as part of the gods. Gandharvas, Apsaras and all the worlds are revered in the period. (4)
 Welfare workers of the welfare agni Usha serve. Agni is the destroyer of enemies. They reach out to their beloved sister Usha. They destroy darkness. They are moving everywhere. They are being illuminated everywhere with their flames. 
Like water, the name of the wide and radiant maruts on all sides is one, yet they are similarly sufficient for the enjoyment of the stoetas. Just as there is food from the Father. 
May the Brahmanaspatis, the masters of wealth, the healers, the givers of wealth, the givers of wealth, the givers of affirmative and quick fruits, have mercy on us. 
O son of strength Indra! Give us a son who can attack enemies in the same way that the sun strikes beings in a battle. He is the master of thousands of riches, the possessor of the fertile earth and the destroyer of the enemies. 
Drink the som given by the word Indra Swaha. The Indra, whose Somras is, comes to the yagna and is full of the violence of the evildoers, the kamavarshis and the maruts. May the Supreme Comprehensive Indra be satisfied with the som etc. given by us and may our given havya fulfill the wishes of Indra's body. 
O the first of the god without death, the one with light, the tongue that pleases the gods, the one who removes sins, the one with a demon-monstrous mind, the housewives and the blazing agni! Hosts who wish for the gods serve you well with praises. 
The enemy who stands in front, who walks, who cheats crookedly, who behaves in secret and who opposes the enemy after getting a painful life, the great Varuna sees all these enemies from time to time. King Varuna knows the secret advice that two people sit in solitude and do as the third. (2)
These agni gods are illuminated with great glory. O God of Agni! With the abundance of your radiances, you reveal all beings. These agni gods completely destroy the mayas related to the demons and know the suffering and sharpen their horns for the destruction of the demons. (24)
The host who gives somdev food in the form of havi, he gives him a milch cow, a fast-moving horse and a son skilled in performing cosmic work, skilled in housework, performing the ritual of yajna, sakal shastragyata and the famous name of the father. 
I will wipe out the anger of those who are called by rudra havya as well as by the invocations. Rudra with a soft abdomen, with a gentle voice, with a gentle voice, with a yellow colour and a beautiful nose, should not have violence towards me. 
Shobhan, who exploits cows by hand, I call him near me, milking the easy-to-milk cow. Savita has given me the best cow. In them, the statement of Tejashwi dharma has been made. (4)
The sages who created all beings when the real and movable world was created, the same sages performed yajna by spending the same amount of money as the ancient stoetas. 
I limit death as a stone of protecting living sons and grandsons. Let no one else go through this moribund path. May these people live hundreds of years and keep death away from themselves through this stone. 
You are the primeval God and the original Divine Personality; you are the sole resting place of this universe. You are both the knower and the object of knowledge; you are the Supreme Abode. O possessor of infinite forms, you alone pervade the entire universe.
O eternal gem! I cover you with Indra's armor. He became the king of Indra Devas. May all gods cover you with their own armor for the accomplishment of their tasks. O eternal gem! May all gods protect you. (4)
Calling guests is a joyous agni, feeding them in your home is the agni of garhapatya and the vessel in which food is cooked for the guest is deekshagni. (13)
O God who calms the poison! Snakes should not do violence to us and our sons, grandsons etc. and servants. Don't open the snake's mouth to bite us. His open mouth should not be closed due to mantra power. Salutations to the gods capable of calming the snake poison. (1)
O Indra! We are hearing the terrible words of the nearby enemies. You use your annoying thunderbolt on them to kill them, root out these enemies, hinder them specifically and defeat them. O Indra! Kill the monsters first. After this, complete this yajna. 
The learned people worship fire as a symbol and instrument of yajnas through their yajnakarmas. The host wishes happiness from the same fire in which the Stotas offer their duties to their duties. 
I don't know which two dancing women, that is, which other day and night. The cloth is woven by one man and the other is pulled out. He holds it in heaven. (43)
May the conch produced from air, produced from space, generated from electricity, originating from the place above the lithosphere and originating from heaven protect us from sin. (1)
Such self-conceited and stubborn people, full of pride and arrogant in their wealth, perform ostentatious sacrifices in name only, with no regard to the rules of the scriptures.
O hosts! Prepare the someras desired by the gods. Somerus is holy. You sing more praises for him. (62)
May Soma, the king of herbs, protect you with the help of medicines. Protect you with the help of Sun God constellations. With the help of months, the moon, the tree, that is, Indra, who destroys the darkness covering, and with the help of prana vayu, may the air god protect you. (2)
We pray to the broad and equal parents that we protect the innocent people in order to find happiness. May Usha, destroying darkness, put an end to our sins. We beg for happiness from the ignited agni. 
Indra kills the rapists and gives sweetness to the speech of those who speak distorted speeches. Just as the father increases the force, Indra increases the strength of his devotees in the same way. We praise such a mighty Indra. (6)
The deserts come down from heaven meeting each other. O Maruto! Inspire us with your voice. When the bright and sinless deserts are present in many yagnas, the still mountains also begin to tremble. 
This gem made from tilak tree returns the krita rakshasi to the one who sends it as a witchcraft on someone. It is capable of driving away the enemies who do heroic deeds. This gem is going to be very powerful, the enemy is deadly and the priest who protects the host. (1)
With the help of a pitcher, everyone sees the water of the well coming up with their eyes, but they do not know with the mind. (14)
 Somerus is holy. The someras which is kept in the kalash resides in the best qualities of the moon. 
The body lies between those waters that wet the world and enlarge. That universe is called the soul above, below and in the middle of the body. (34)
The sun adds the seven horses that sanctify everyone to its chariot and moves with their tips with the help of them. (24)
Fishermen should be appointed for ponds, servants for groves, Nishads for small ponds, fish livelihood sustenance for nadwal. The one who knows the way to cross, the kewat for the person coming across from that side, the fence for the pilgrimage, the one who wants to shore for the uneven place should appoint the shore. Trumpet players should be appointed for the melodious sound, Bhilkiraat for the caves, the fierce person for the summit and small men for the mountain. (16)
O Parth, for those yogis who always think of me with exclusive devotion, I am easily attainable because of their constant absorption in me.
The ushas with gosampannas and all the shoes, which quickly darken the havan-giving host like the wind as soon as the word of praise is over, let the horse-giving usha permeate the host that squeezes the somras. 
Its seventh is Apan Dakshina. (7)
Fire chose today! Digestible item and cooked purodash. Tied the goat for Indra Dev. The vegetable god increased them by cooking them with goat's milk and purodash. Please do the same. (46)
O men wishing for age! May your life, air and eyes reside in your body. May your life and mind also remain in your body. We save you through our mantras from the bonds of the sin god named Nirti. (3)
O Indra! When the struggle for great wealth begins, we should move our horses on the path of high and low in such a way as the willing hawk of meat grows on the crooked path. 
When the ritwij squeezes the charming, intoxicating, forceful, and consumable someras with the help of stones for your wisdom, then you should give som to both your joyful and somras-consuming horses in this yagna and defeat the shajrus who have kidnapped our wealth. 
O Indra and Agni! We call you both with the best praises accepted by the gods to protect ourselves. The wise men who perform shobhan yajna try to please both of you by performing yajna seva like the maruts. 
O god of Aditi! All those whom you take from the paths of adornment and give welfare by removing them from all sins, they all get the growth by staying safe from all evils and get the advancement of the child after the righteous works. 
O Sadapushpa Jadi! You are the eyes of Maharishi Kashyap and the four-eyed Devshuni Sarma, that is, the same shape as their eyes. Just as the sun moves in space, don't hide the moving vampires from me. (7)
O vegetation! Bring the gods to us. Be a agni-shaped vegetable ritualist and inspire havya towards the gods. They are the ones who call the gods and perform yajna. They know the birth of gods. 
By the grace of Agni, the host gets wealth. By Agni's grace, that wealth grows day by day. With this Wealth, the host attains fame and keeps many brave men with him. 
For the great Indra, enemies also praise Indra's force every time Someras is squeezed in Somayag. (16)
O Indra! You have been born by wearing the force that hurts suffering. O one who gives you the fruit! After the creation of us human beings, you have made a vast world called heaven for the gods by removing him from us. (2)
Many people's beloved agnis are guests and guests. In the morning, the praise and deathless agni wishes for all the devotees who are in the possession of the hosts. 
O adhwaryu logo! Offer the most intoxicating and selectable somras to Indra. O Indra! You make the host who pleases and wants food through all the sacrificial works to progress. 
Oh my god! You fool our enemies into knowing the duty and duty of your maya. You destroy the superiors of this army. May our army win by your grace. (21)
O visible! Hello to you. O Shobhan! You look at me. (3)
Kill (destroy) the agni tree. Fire is rich and luminous. They are illuminated with samidha. Dedicate sacrifices to them. (9)
O fire! Do us well with constant auspicious and pleasant protections without pride. O favor! Protect us and our children by means of non-violent and non-violent means. 
O Indra! In ancient times, the revolutionary stos held this famous force of yours in front of them. The lights that live on the land of Indra and live in the sky are found in this way, just as the flags of the opposing warriors mingle in the war. 
This gem made from the vegetation named Varan with divine qualities should prevent rajayaksma disease. Indra adi dev should remove the disease of tuberculosis that resides in this man. (1)
O agni! You are worthy of worship and worship. Havan is performed well in you. In this yajna karma of ours, you come with the Vasus. You belong to gods. You worship the gods with our inspiration. (3)
Besides these, is the Supreme Divine Personality, who is the indestructible Supreme Soul. He enters the three worlds as the unchanging controller and supports all living beings.
 O Indra! You protect us and our forces. You are a wonderful warrior, enemy, stable, brave, angry towards immorality and not pitying the enemy. You are going to penetrate the enemy's stronghold. 
If a Brahmin is harmed, the Brahmin's cow spoils both this world and the hereafter. (11)
The lord of the yajna and the omniscient agni was similarly praised by gautama etc. sages. Anne was pleased to have drunk the bright som of those sages and ate food. Those agnis are confirmed by knowing the details we have given. 
Rudra, Vasu, the lord-of-minded leader of the yajna, the earth-sky and the vast space, all these gods should together protect the yajna and raise the yup as the keturup of the yajna. 
H Amapasya and Purnima enter Aditya. Sacrifice is the imperishable of them. (10)
O woman! You will be happy to climb this bed and produce children for your husband. You become as rich in wisdom as your husband and wake up in the daily dawn. (31)
O Indra Dev! You move with horses named your Hari. Accept this desire for your sons. (89)
The word invocation of the Angiragotrian sages, who inspired Indra, completes the sky. The gods who wished for food received the earth from the mind. Seeing the cows stolen by the pangs on the earth, the gods lighted up for their welfare with their brightness in such a way that the sun shines. 
O Indra, who has won all the riches of the elders and enemies! We get your protection. 
God! Amazing, omnipresent, superior semen and moving. May those gods please provide us with nutritious wealth. (20)
O beloved agni! You are the housekeeper in our yajna. You would be the only one, the grandson and the one with specific knowledge. You should eat and eat the best of the good. 
 O agni! You are the one who makes the host food, with a broad vision and is revered. You are happy and easily give money to the hosts. Please give plenty of money to the worshippers. 
The famous somas are nichudata, located in chamas and receive the air. Give us the power of the air. 
Capable of protecting us from death and friendly, may the benevolent friend of all be able to prolong our life through the seasons of sun, spring, etc. They spread the earth with their rays. After the arrival of Sun God, Varuna, Vayu and Agni give us a vast kingdom capable of ruling (1)
O friend and Varuna, your horses properly connected in the chariot, take both of you and stop quickly when the charioteer pulls the reins. The water itself follows you and it is by your grace that the old rivers flow. 
O Yajnaswamy Indra! You are the master of the whole world and yogaksham through all the means of defense. O blasphemous, thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink somras in the median savan. 
If the crow scratches the cow's hair in the presence of the cow's owner, then its sons die and they themselves get tuberculosis. (8)
O happy agni! You, while behaving in friendship with the gods, make the high creepers on the earth with your radiance and come in your own way, burning the forests with your flame-like teeth. 
Hey Mon! What is strange, admirable, divine and the riches of the earth, you, without hesitation, give us all that. 
The divine sun is the sustainer of the earth etc. He is worthy of greeting and praise by all the people alone. O Divine Sun God! I worship you as Brahman. My greetings to you. Your abode is in heaven. (1)
 O Mon! You're so sweet. You come to the yagyashala. You come in the kalash for Indra 
O agni! Vasu, Brahmanaspati, Brahma, Rudra, Surya and Vasuniti re-illuminated you to get a life of a hundred years. (6)
 O Indra! Even if heaven becomes a hundred times, you cannot match you. Even if the land is a hundred times, it cannot be like you. O Vajradhari Indra! A hundred suns can't even illuminate you. Even those who happen later cannot match you, that is, there is nothing in front of you. You are the biggest. 
I remove the burning agni of meat. Let the agni that carries the sin go into the land of Yama. Knowing that these are the second agnis here, we take the vows for the gods. 
By opening any of the schools that are upmita, pratimita and parimita, we open the doors of a selectable school for all of us. (1)
The gods appointed the two months of shishir season from the upper side as its protector and made the sky and the sun its rituals. (17)
 O Indra! You're going to do hundreds of jobs. You try to protect us. You are reputed in a high position. We keep consulting you about some other things. 
 O Mon! You are a money giver. Please flow for Indra, Varuna and Marudgana. 
. Stotao! Chant yajna-related mantras that are beautiful, sharp and capable of giving form. A person who serves Indra gets rid of all the bonds. (4)
O agni! Your glory, which is present in the waters, is present in the forests, which causes the ripening of fruits in medicines, which is located in the form of gastritis in all living beings and which lives in the clouds in the form of electricity, collect all these and come as a daily giver. (2)
 O Ashwini! Usha brings unique, dear and day. We worship him with huge hymns. 
Having a firm limb, adorned with a cloth and a covered up yup. The same is better produced than all the vegetation. The wise, the sociable, the meditators and the revolutionary adhwaryu, etc., raise it high by wishing for the gods with their heart. 
Varuna and Mitra are the ones who do good and provide shelter to many wise people. Let them protect our strength and action. 
This stotao! You should recite praises to Indra's ears, so that Indra may become powerful and supremely pleased in all directions. Make my applicant without fear for indra dhani, who became powerful with somras paan. 
 O Indra! You are happy. We praise the somers squeezed for you. Those who perform yajna are requested to praise Someras. Someras is worthy of worship. 
The heroic man had made these mortals, the sanctifying, the black way, and the great agni his messenger. 
Herbs that destroy ascites, calm poison, affect diseases like cough etc. and drive away the sin god called Krita, those herbs should be brought here. (10)
O man wanting to! Due to defiance as son, grandson, etc., your male sense can try like an angry snake's hood, that is why I give you this medicine. (3)
 O Adityao! Please keep us away from the effects of sickness and hostility. You save us from evil sense. 
Hota performed yajna for Agni and Indra Dev. Both gods are great, successful, full of superior samidha, varenya and ayudhari. It is gayatri verses and senses offer sacrifices to them through power. The energy would offer sacrifices to them by light and their rays. (24)
Indra stops the enemies with his left hand, accepts the advice given by the hosts with the right hand and gives money by listening to the praise of the hymn. They become our protectors with the help of the maruts. 
The substances that kill the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be freed from the bondage of Indra and Agni. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (27)
Praise the agni of the mother in the form of Havi. May they protect you from sin. Agni will climb on Savita's boat and save us from wisdom through six goddesses. (48)
One situated in the transcendental Brahman realization becomes mentally serene, neither grieving nor desiring. Being equitably disposed toward all living beings, such a yogi attains supreme devotion unto me.
The means mentioned earlier in the form of senses, karmedris and prana, apana etc., were collected by Brahma, who created the universe. By wetting the body made by those means with blood, marrow, etc., those gods created the dead dharma purush and entered it as a soul. (13)
 Agni Dev is omnipresent. They protect the main places of the earth. They are great. They protect the path of the sun and space. They protect the yajna that is dear to the marudaganas and gods in the space world. They are beautiful and visible. 
While playing spontaneously, Som drips together in Dronakalash and Vasativari. 
The wheel with twelve arrows i.e. the sun itself does not become dilapidated even while moving. O agni! Seven hundred and twenty couples i.e. three hundred and sixty days and night pairs are located as his sons. (13)
Som is taken to the yajna place. There the priests purify it, make it holy, then it is used as the havi of the gods. 
These sacrifices are dedicated to loving worship, living beings who speak words, gods who drink soma rasa, ancestors who sanctify special sacrifices, earth, heaven and all other deities. (15)
Then, from amidst the Pandava army, seated in a glorious chariot drawn by white horses, Madhav and Arjun blew their Divine conch shells.
O blazing and the ultimate glorious agni! We host you to praise you. You are a workman and a rich man and are well lit up in the yagnas. 
The Som, squeezed by the Ritvijas, goes to sit in the yagnasthan with his power as if one goes to war. 
 O agni! It is very surprising to see you in the form of child and youth. After being born, you do not go to both your mothers 
O furious Indra! We should not be afraid of your friendship, nor should we be afraid. Oh, this desireful Indra! Your great deeds are worth saying. We have seen the Turvash and Yadu kings. 
Strange forms like wealth, those who show all things like the sun, the founders of life like air, the beloved like the son, the folk vehicle like the moving horse and the nourishing like the cows, the radiant and the specially lit agni  come to burn the forests. 
Rudra, who has fever and cough, goes to the apkari man, saying words like a horse capable of conception. Rudra destroys them in order to consider the crime of the ordnance criminal. My greetings to such Rudra. (22)
Just as the sun expands water with its light, so the Dadhidra Devas increase the five kinds of subjects by their own force. The mighty God, who gives hundreds and thousands of riches, will hear our praises and give us sweet fruits. 
Who comes out of fear of the enemies and is destroyed by the enemies, being a gracious Indra? i.e. none. Who knows our nearest Indra as the protector? Who prays to Indra to protect his son, himself, his wealth and the body? i.e. protect Indra without prayer. 
O agni for the lord, the fruit-giver and the abode by the wooden power! In this devyagna, call the gods and other people related to them to the Kushas for sompan today. 
O Indra! I have the greatest respect for your anger. You killed Vrithra and created publicly beneficial water. O thunderbolt Indra! The earth is under your control and space trembles with your fear. 
O God of Agni! You are a source, that is why give me the power to listen. This havi is well done havan. (5)
O maruto with mutually mixed wealth! You come well to enjoy the Somrupi havya. I'll give you this. You don't go to another place. 
O man! Make your part, which has been bitten by the black bird Cove and has been bitten by special ants, snakes or tigers with venomous teeth, make that part of yours free from all-pervading agni diseases. The som, which has entered the sages in the form of rasa, may he make you disease-free. (55)
 Hey Wayne! You live near the high heavens. You are adorned by wearing amazing armaments. You wear water for creatures like the sun and shower it. 
Earth, agni, medicine, vegetation and medicine followed him. (2)
A lighted and possessing world, Savita rises to perform her natal work. They give gems to the gods and make the host who performs beautiful yajna a partaker of welfare. 
O host! Agni Dev, who gives money, wishes for a khuch full of your desire. Fill the vessel with Somerus and donate Someras. After this, Agni Dev will wear you. 
O King Varuna! Rid us of the debts taken by our former men. Redeem me from the loan I have taken in the present era. I don't travel with other's earned money. Debt does not lead to the emergence of ushas for the borrower. Give such a command that we may be awakened in all those ushas. 
With the help of the odan that gave life to those who came near death, the odan for which the people rain streams of ghee and the speed with which all directions are illuminated, I cross death. (5)
O Indra who hears the sbutis! Accept this hymn of ours. It grows like an ocean that grows at the time of moonrise. You give us welfare by all means of defence because of the same hymn. 
We should be full of brightness and juice based on the state of the body. We should be equipped with body parts - hands, feet etc. and should be equipped with a beautiful mind. Make our body powerful and purify the diseased part of our body with your hand. (3)
We praise the destroyer of enemies, the purifier of all, the rainy one, the beholder of all and the son of Rudra through stotras. O hosts! You should also go near the dead who blow dust for the sake of wealth, called in a sacrifice called The Mighty Rishish and the working months. 
 O Mon! You shine like gold. You sit in the place of sacrifice. When you add water and filter it, you come to the kalash in the form of a stream. You are going to give money. 
Deepthishali Usha is seen bearing the stunning and colourful horses. Usha, who has bright colours, goes everywhere with a chariot with many forms and gives a gemstone to her devotee. 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are dependent in the world and the brightness of the sun. I display might in Dulok and get him out of the swing. The one who hates us or the one we hate should not survive. Give up life. (27)
Being a celibate, I am a servant of Yamraj, the son of the Sun. That is why I pray to Yamraj for the destruction of my enemy from among the creatures. I bind that enemy worthy of killing with mantra, penance, physical punishment and mekhala. (3)
O Manu! You alone are able to destroy many enemies praised by us. Enter all of you people and inspire them to fight. O manyu of constant radiance! With your help, we make a cry like a lion's name for victory. (4)
Usha, who is bright and white and born out of black darkness, knows the first part of the day. When born, Usha joins the sun's brightness. It does not defeat his speed, but he adorns him every day. 
O Indra! You're willing to drink somers. By drinking somers, your theududi has become green. Bring you here the horses attached to your chariot. You can come to the house of Som kept in chamas etc. characters and drink Soma, so your horses bring you here. (2)
The paths through which only the gods go, many of the paths are present between the earth and the sky. May all gods establish me on the path that is going to bring prosperity in those demands. (1)
We see the circle of the sun that is truly covered with water and eternal. Where you both have the position, there is the horses of the stota free. There are a thousand rays living there and he is the only best among the bright gods. 
O men! The Indra who was born in the lap of the earth i.e. heaven and earth, who does not know the earth of his mother and the sky of the father and completes the deeds of God i.e. yajna praised by us, he is Indra. (16)
Papahanta Friends, Aryama, Savita and Bhaga give us the favored wealth when the sun comes out today. 
The same ancient knowledge of Yog, which is the supreme secret, I am today revealing unto you, because you are my friend as well as my devotee, who can understand this transcendental wisdom.
 Agni is ready to listen to the prayers of the host performing the best yajna. We worship them. 
The ritwijas praise the sacrificial, the possessors of wealth, the all-loving, the wise and the eternally lit fire and achieves good happiness. The fire is the human being, the life of all beings, the one with the ultimate wisdom, the summoners of the gods, the Yajnais and the omniscient. Hosts want to give a word to the fire by the desire of money and those who speak with the desire of the one who gets shelter and get the delightful fire. 
Let both the horses, named Hari, bring Indra, with an unpulsive force, close to the praise and yagna of vasishta adi rishis and other human beings. 
 O Indra! You are the world leader, huge like a mountain and the swami of heaven. You please come to our yagna 
O agni! You go upwards. You completely destroy our enemies. You find divine works. (13)
May usha, the master of wealth, the chieftain and the destroyer of sins, give us the money worth giving us. We want to stay away from the anger of a person with bad money. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
O agni! You come with money. You irrigate the earth with water. This watershed is thirst quencher. You water the whole world with it. (10)
Oh my friend and Varun! I worship your yajna through praises and call you to remove the obstacle. I've made new hymns for you. May the praises I have gathered please you. 
O agni! You sit on a chariot with thirty-three gods and come to our yagna. If you want, sit in many chariots. Your horses are highly powerful. Therefore, whenever you are called to drink Someras, bring those gods here with your wives and make them happy with Sompan. (4)
Salutations to this soul, under whose control this whole grazing world is. This soul is the God of all and in it the whole world is located. (1)
 O agni! We are in your shelter. Host invite you. Worship you. All kinds of happiness are obtained by worshiping you. We have established you here from the heart. 
Thinking of you as my friend, I presumptuously addressed you as, “O Krishna,” “O Yadav,” “O my dear mate.” I was ignorant of your majesty, showing negligence and undue affection. And if, jestfully, I treated you with disrespect, while playing, resting, sitting, eating, when alone, or before others—for all that I crave forgiveness.
O Apamarg or Sahadevi! You are capable of destroying enemies and opponents. You should cut and destroy the son, grandson, etc. of the person who uses krita like a grass called a nad that is produced in the rainy season. (1)
Hey Ritvijo! You are the brothers of the mighty ones, the rebels, growing by the flames and approaching the very great agni. 
Indra said, "This is the hymn! I have such a soothing attitude that I give the desired fruit to the host who squeezes the Somras. I completely destroy the one who does not give me a word, makes untrue speeches and wants to commit sin." 
O Indra! You have despised these bandits from all virtues and condemned the dasas without sacrificial deeds. O Indra and Mon! Hinder both enemies, kill them and accept worship from the hosts in exchange for their killing. 
The skilled carpenter who kills you with a tool, that is, peels you and creates you, that is why the life-giving and holy water purify you and make you holy. (3)
Wear the hymn of agni as a friend and varuna. The anger of the present-day maruts in space is great. O agni! Protect us. The minds of these maruts be pleased with us. O agni! Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O workman Indra and Agni! If you are pleased with your own brightness in the sky illuminated because of the rising sun, then still come from there and drink the squeezed mon. 
O beautiful Sage.o and Vajgan! Just as you perform the yajna of men to make the days a decoration, so come to our yajna through devamargo. 
For penance and penance, be covered with shishir season. These months are connected from within the agni. Heaven and earth are happy. Medicines should be enjoyable. Let the agnis be determined. Please be pleased to establish the agnis that are of the same mind between heaven and earth. Just as Indra Dev is the shelter, so become the god shelter related to the Shishir season. Please be pleased to sit as a devotee like Angira Rishi. (57)
O agni! Pray by the same invocations as the gods before you and others related to them. O god who donating! Drink the somras that have been squeezed for you the previous day, the somras present in front of you. 
O karyati ashwinikumaro! Make our speech capable of being of the prescribed kamo and the intellect capable of knowledge of the Vedas. In the last hour of the night without light, we call you to protect you. Be helpful in our innervation. 
The light through which Indra Adi Dev went to heaven after completing a yajna called Brahmaudanasava, that heaven is the land of those who do virtuous deeds. Through the same Devayana path, we will also conquer the heavenland that is received as the fruit of virtue. We will reach heaven by aiming at the best and happy people. (37)
Hey Mon! You should drip your godly, demonic, all-chooseable and intoxicating juices with the grain. 
O Rudra Dev! You are blue neck hair. Your color is green. You are extremely stunning. You are installed in the tree. You keep thousands of plans away from us by making your bow less than the line. (58)
O man! You should do heroic deeds through the means of darbhamani. Do not be sad while holding this instrument of power. You disturb the enemies with the force of your body and illuminate all four directions like the sun. (5)
O Maruto! You manage two types of happiness for bhardwaj. Give the cow that gives enough milk and eatable food for everyone. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You had broken the fortified cities of the more Maya-dominated Pipru asura by your own force. O Indra with shobhan daan! You gave unhindered money to a king named Rijiju, who gave the hawdaar. 
The rivers that strengthen the weak carry the agni of the great, the sons of the skin, the jarnasless and the desire to hold the lokas. By illuminating with its elements near the waters, agni enters the earth-sky in the same way that a man approaches a woman. 
Where is that God Ashwinikumar today? Where are they living in heaven today? Which host do you come to? Who will be the helper of your praises? 
O God of Agni! You are the seer of the punishment and grace of men. Those demons who cause pain to the people, cut off three limbs i.e. two hands and the third head from them. You also cut off the ribs and three parts of the legs of those demons with your glory. (10)
The leader of the yajna, the Ritvija, produces praiseworthy, distant, grihapati and dynamic agni from the forest with the help of hands and fingers. 
O agni! Let us serve you and be the ones of the brave deeds. Light vests cover everyone brightly and hold the pleasing agni many times in its entirety. O glorious agni! Let us be well-mannered by serving your charming fast. 
 O Usha! You come. You take cows with milk-filled udders from the forest. 
O jealous and very learned agni! With our pleasing and tongue that lives in our mouth, we give money to the hawaidhars and put the one who gives the havan in the yagnakamas. 
O agni! Let our stotas be as superior as dogs. They are best at all the hymns. Let our sins be destroyed. 
The lord of the food, who is repeatedly squeezed by human beings, friendly to the host and the seer of all, always goes to the Soma Devas. 
The family members of Priyamedha Rishi have attained the old place of the gods i.e. heaven, expanded the Kushas with the aim of the main donation and attained somras etc. 
 O agni! You have all kinds of knowledge. You are worn by the same arrays as a well-conceived woman. You are revered every day by the hosts who are aware of the yajna. 
Yami Boli - Coming to this deserted and wide island, I am attracted to you to have sexual intercourse with your friend. You are with me from the mother's belly. Vidhata wants the son who is born of my womb from your contact to be the worthy grandson of our Father. 
O Aj! May you receive these divine streams of someras that mix and honey. Sit in heaven above the sun and pillar the earth and the earth. (15)
O aschinikumaro! Bring with you the measures by which you watered the banks of the Saritas, drove the ashwadiless chariot for victory, and enabled Trishoka to get your stolen cows. 
O protector god! Speak sweet words to us. Don't let yourself subdue us, and let the condemners not condemn us. Let us always be dear to Som and receive the glorious children and exalt the praises. 
With a very increased force, vast in appearance, the leader of the yagnakarma, the bright and the most learned, they work with the rays of the sun like both the arms of the friend and Varuna. 
We praise the joyful, comprehensive and fast-paced Dadidra Dev. They make our eyeglasses, etc., senses happy and make us more old. 
Let the green-coloured som automatically come to us, with a huge glow, lying in the yagnas. Let those who do not give us food and destroy our enemies. May the gods accept our deeds. 
The great and non-violent god worships Som. Just as the stotas who desire wealth from Som do words, so do the gods who taste Soma say words near their stream. Kushal Ritwijs massages the som with ten fingers and mixes the juice of som with water. 
He is indivisible, yet he appears to be divided amongst living beings. Know the Supreme Entity to be the sustainer, annihilator, and creator of all beings.
Those bulls wore leprosy for Sarma and hooves for deeds. He wore the upper part of the bull for mines and insects. (16)
O man, Mon! Protect us in the days of kalpa. O Pawman Mon! You destroy warable monsters. 
The gods appointed two months of the rainy season in the west direction as its protector and appointed Vairupa and Vairaja as its ritualists. (8)
Oh patient! I flush out tuberculosis from your thighs, knees, ankles, toes, buttocks, waist and anus. 
We call Indra, who is enthusiastic, rich, leader of the whole world, fierce for the enemies who hear praises, demon destroyer in war and winner of enemies' wealth. 
Seven to five adhyors protect the beloved aviation-like place of the moving agni with the help of the supernuclears. The stotas who go eastwards, jarnaless and shower somras on the occasion of Sompan are happy. The Devas go to the yagna of the hymns who are devlike. 
O musician, the instrument! Together, you take out a tone that will win over Jupiter. O Banaspatio! O Lord of the Forest! You leave your horses etc. So that Indra Dev can win. After this victory, O Generals! Please give rest to horses, elephants, etc. (12)
O chariot made by wood! You become having firm ingredients. You become our friends of the uplifting and the adorning heroes. You're bound by gocharm, make us firm. Conquer the brave enemies who trust you. 
O Indra who hears the praises of the kalavans and hymns! You give money to the psalms. These hymns are the hymns with wealth! May this Indra be the giver to you. The mon I keep in the stomach, let them also be a giver for you. 
Do the ushas expand the knowledge that the ritwijs hold? They cover the whole world with a form of cover power. The people who desire the gods, except for the predecessors and the future usha, violate ignorance from the present usha present in front of them. 
O thunderbolt! In ancient times, when the sun retired from the battle with darkness, you destroyed the cloud. You eliminated the force of the shusht that covers the sun and attaches to the sun. 
O bull! You expand the gods with your milk etc. You have been called Indra and Saraswat. The one who donates the bull in the yajna performed by Brahmin mantras receives the virtue of donating thousands of cows with one face. (9)
Indra, called by enemy hunters, combatants, protectors of gentlemen and many hosts, let us consume sunlight on this day and be our protectors with the help of the Maruts. 
Saraswati's force is infinite, undefeated, radiant, dynamic and watery and spins around with words over and over again. 
At that time air was entering the waters and the devas were also entering the waters. Where was the great Brahman, who created the earth, located at that time? At that time the wind entered the directions. (40)
O Stotta! These indras are the form of pleasing friends who please human beings and the beauty of yajna. Offer somers to indra. (7)
These are Angira Dev and Atharva Rishi. By spreading this world, the hereafter, the virtuous world, the people without suffering, all the said and untold worlds, this Brahma form creates all the real and movable worlds. (5)
Vasishtaputra, who is white in colour, who completes the yagnakarmas and has a peak in the southern part of the head, pleases me. I get up from the yajna and say to them, 'O Vasishtaputra! Don't go away from me. 
O medicine! The act of driving from you to the land where the great speed goes cannot harm anyone. You came out of your place and hurt the creator of the specially ignited act. (6)
O Indra! The cushions have been laid for you to sit, the mon has been squeezed for you to drink and the roasted barleys are ready for your horses to eat. Detailed greetings have been given to you by many people, who have the seats of kushas, those with a workman and an army of maruts. 
I have created this loop instrument to bind by penance. Indra has already intensified it. Our enemies in this struggle, O Agni! Tie them all to the loop bond.   (2)
The seat of yajna is pleasant. Demons and evil have been removed from this seat. It is the cover of the earth. So let the earth adopt it. O sil (stone)! You are karmashakiti originating from the mountain. So let the earth adopt you. Oh my son! You are the stop of heaven. Oh greedy! You are going to rub. You are like Sil's daughter. So sil you go your own (19).
O Indra! You give us wealth and way by your power. You bring happiness before us. 
As soon as it arose from the night, the sun-like Indra chose light. We will stay away from sin and in a place without fear. O Mon drinker and the chief Indra in getting som! Listen to these praises of the cursing and praising ritwij. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! The arhtivaan, long-term and vyashtrishis have sacrificed you. Prithu son of Wayne is in all your houses. So you become conscious. (5)
The thundering cloud has covered the speech. The voice covered by the cloud does the word. This speech appears in the form of electricity from the clouds and frightens humans. (7)
We call shraddha in the morning, at noon and at the setting of the sun. Oh, faith! Make us reverent in this world. 
O Indra in the form of the sun! O Aditya! The fact that you are great is true. You are the true one. Your glory is admired, so the fact that you are glorious is true. (3)
To please the gods, the mons who enter the characters target godoudha etc. They despise the tone of The Sun's beloved daughter Usha. The stota praises Som enough. Mons meet the moving fingers arising from both the arms and joined together. 
O Indra and Air! Come before us with the help of the same rich rich-giving asas, the horses that serve you in hundreds and thousands of yours that are chosen by all. Hey leaders! Drink the mon brought to the north-altar. 
Charu containing malpua etc. and with other enchanting substances should be located in this yajna. We please those who create the worlds and marags and among the gods present here, for whom the yajna has been run. (19)
O Indra! You kill the demons with sinful instincts. You give our cows etc. the power to destroy others. (5)
The sun will also push this kidnapper down from heaven and consume him. (12)
The sorrow that those who grieve children and animals have spread in your house. May Savita and Agni rescue you from that sin. (62)
O Indra and the wind! May our hymns inspire you to come to the yagna. Just as the fast-moving horse is massaged, in the same way, the ritvis rub the som brought to the yagnabhoomi by placing it in the kalash from the house. You drink their somras and come to protect our yajna. You are both food givers, so drink the som powdered by stones for your fulfillment. 
Those who bring food items to serve in front are purodash. (12)
O Ashwinikumaro! Whether you are sitting in the dulok like your father or living in a pleasantly praiseworthy house, come to us from both places. 
We become happy by removing the painful disease fever from the place of moonj, from the country of the organ, from the middle country and from the country of Gandhara. (14)
At the time of preaching the glory of Guru Odan, do not preach the lack of glory. Do not say that odan is devoid of milk, ghee, etc. Do not say that he is placed in front of the odan or he is unspecified. (24)
When we have any concern or we think of Indra, at that time Indra appears in front of us. Indra should come to us with the grains. (1)
 O Indra! You are the master of this world and the root consciousness. You can see everything. Just as cows with milk in the udders are eager to go to the calves, we bow down to you in a hurry. 
By dedicating all your works to me, you will be freed from the bondage of good and bad results. With your mind attached to me through renunciation, you will be liberated and will reach me.
O water! The flora is filled with juice similar to milk. Our eulogy is also filled with juices similar to milk. You cleanse us with your essence which is similar to milk. 
Agni God! Drink Som Rasa while being pleased with the karma of Ritvij who ignites the agni. This karma is full of beautiful stotras and beautiful mantras. (2)
We invite Vachaspati and Vishwakarma to protect us today. Today, we invite a person as fast as the mind to protect ourselves. You are a good person. Enjoy with love the havi offered by us in our yagna. (23)
Indra's weapons are fierce, hundred-edged and made of gold. Indra should kill the Gandharvas who do not give havi from them and eat algae. (9)
O agni! We give you extremely energetic fat from the middle part of the animal. O agni that provides the abode! The drops that fall for your purpose on top of the skin, provide them to each god. 
O global! The Trirune who gave me a hundred golden currencies, twenty cows and two horses in a chariot, you are ignited by our praises and give him pleasure. 
 O Indra! You are rich, fierce and strong. No one can beat you. You are worshiped in all the yagyas. We also worship you. We worship you with speech. Please make all our paths well- vajradhari Indra. 
O Indra! Accept our given purodash food and give us a hundred and a thousand songs. 
The steady effect of agni, which is jarless, moving and willing to burn forests, is present everywhere like air. Saying words similar to warriors, priests surround the agni for the yagna. At that time you display power by wearing three idols. 
O horse! Your velocity extraordinary location is hidden in the cave. Your velocity, which is safe in the bird and the air, you should be strong with the same fast force and give us success in the struggle. (2)
O Desertion! You are Indra's friend. Destroy your enemies. You are going to be happy with delicious foods and provide beautiful rain. Sun listen to you. (3)
The seasons of devgan and spring etc. create many types of yagyas. To put in this yajna, many characters of the shape of a spoon are made to put the substances made from ghee etc. in the agni. O man! With those Devayana paths, that is, by the methods of performing yajna, you should always perform yajna. People who perform yajna through these Devayan routes go to heaven. (2)
These Aditya, friends and Varun are not going to lose to anyone. They make the unscientific by their power and approach the yajnakar and the one who is blessed with knowledge and lead them to the best path, destroying his sin. 
Heaven holds wealth only for the yajnakar. The land makes it a property. Ashwinikumar increases the devagyakta only through various pleasuresamri. 
Black necked agni, brown mon, white colored air are related. Aditya with impeccable color is related to Dev. The beautiful colors are related to Bale Dhata Dev. Heifers belong to dev wives. (9)
O satyabhava, The One who drinks soma and the lord of the riches Indra! We call you by the desire of food. 
The fingers of the sage Trinity are crushing this soaked and green-colored Som with stones for Indra to drink. 
It is going to bring good gods. May it control us, give us sons and grandsons. Strengthen us all with wealth and keep us away from poverty and sin. Make us stronger. We are grateful for this. (45)
Men who perform rites! Wishing for the lives of ancestors and gods, I spread the Kushas. O dead man! You sat on these chairs, being worthy. Father, allow your ghost from here to sit on these kushas. (51)
O host! We anoint you with Som. O host! We anoint you with the glory of agni. O host! We anoint you with the supremacy of the sun. We anoint you with the power of Indra Dev. You become kshatrapati among Kshatriyas. You become the protector of the people. (17)
O king! You stay overlooked on earth. You dominate the nation and wealth. Continue to cast a shadow on the people like an umbrella. You should be the toucher of the sun while being overhead of nectar and ascend to heaven. (34)
O God! Please motivate Aryama Brihaspati and Indra Dev to donate. Swaha with speech for Vishnu Dev, Saraswati Devi, Savita Dev. (27)
I am satisfied with money on every occasion of getting money and always on getting money. In the stotras I remember, there is no limit to the glory of Indra. (13)
Pusha is the Shobhanabandhu of heaven and earth, the lord of the food, the rich, the seeable, the powerful, the willing to be happy and adorned because of the voluntarily gifted animal. The gods gave them to surya wife. 
The simple mind of Brahmanaspati should destroy the enemies of the stota. Let that devotee of gods defeat the deities. The yajnaka who satisfies the Brahmaspati consumes the wealth of the yagyavirodhis by destroying the indomitable shantrus in the war. 
Whoever knows this, Ishaan protects him from the corners of all directions. Men and animals who are compatible with him, Ishan Bhava and Sharva do not do violence against them. (15)
O godly Indra! You have four asuras and unbeatable bodies. O Dhanaswami Indra! You know all of them through whom you do the deeds. 
May the wealth of brahmins, kshatriyas, vaishyas, shudras and nishads be more than the money of the prose and give us the elaborate vagdevta in the form of prose. The voice given to me by the long-lived sages like Jamadagni, etc., let the sun-like voice make me a new grain. 
Please move upwards. Line money protect you. May the money in the form of shakwar protect you. Protect you in the form of money. Protect you in the form of Trinava, Triyastrinsh, Stom, Hemant and Shishir seasons. Please destroy the wrongdoers completely. (14)
O praise-matter agni! To protect us, you bring the beautiful and beloved Indra here by the sukhdata chariot. 
That one always conquered the enemies with the help of the sages, the somras squeezers of the vedas and the yajna-netta ritvijs. O agni with great lights! You lit them in the struggle. The agni destroyed the increased violent. 
O Maruto! This group of praises of the worthy mandarya poet is for you. This praise goes to you with the desire that the body of the praiseor be strengthened. Let us also gain food, strength and long life through this praise. 
O Indra! Come to our sacrifice from heaven. Our praises coincide with Indra. (5)
O yajnapatra and the present agni in all the three realms! Protect us praises by your unbeatable and guarding swiftness. It's a world! Let us protect the strength of the givers and increase the praiseors. 
We call Indra to the yagna for the somapan through the hymns and the ukthas. Indra comes to be called several times. 
O scholars and righteous ones! You praise the great Indra by singing soma. (5)
O Indra! Which sage argues about you? Why do you come only when the psalm of Someras is called? Why does the group of gods who desire the truth praise you? (2)
Time form God gave birth to this duloka i.e. heaven. Time created those earths. In time, it tries to have a past, future and present world. (5)
Together with the Indra Adityas, protect our yajna, body and subjects. 
Mother earth worships the sun-like father in the sky by sacrificial karma on the occasion of water rain. Before this, the Father has been compatible with the earth with the mind of the intention. After this, the mother who wants to conceive has been pierced with water for the birth of the womb.  They interacted with each other to produce many kinds of crops - wheat, barley, etc. 
Hey Mon! While sorting, your playful streams cross the dasapavittra made of sheep's hair. When you are mixed with water on top of the characters called Chamu, the booms are located in the kalash, squeezing. 
Crossing the great agni, he said, "O Jupiter! It should be the way people beat you. (6)
The Dadhidra Dev is tolerant of war like this type of horses, who possesses the food of the enemies, who serves himself with his own limbs, who walks straight, is swift in the asura armies, who blows the dust, and who is going to drop that dust on his own eyebrows. 
O men who hold gold! May the moon create that gold to gain your strength, benefit and glory. Just as gold shines brightly, so you should also be adorned by targeting human beings. (3)
 O Indra! Give us all the wealth and the shining food of the five lands in human beings. Give us all kinds of forces 
O agni! You are voluntarily adorning your beloved dhams. You are complementary and emperor to all the wishes of the present and the future. You are being adorned with radiant. (117)
O Indra! Come before us by twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty or seventy horses of the best speed to the Sompan. 
The Stotas fixed indra's thunderbolt like the sun in the sky. The thunderbolt permeated all directions with its velocity. Indra, who has a green nose and a sompankarta, wore thousands of types of radiance while killing the enemy with a thunderbolt. 
O Indra! The milking cow give milk for your mon. You take honey in your vessel through a curchle. He is clean and well-being. 
O Indra, the one who fulfills the desire! You tie the Krishna antelope-skin covering the Soma Mani to our warriors. Our enemies should run away from us and we should get the livestock of those enemies. (3)
O agni! Don't consume this phantom; Don't throw the skin of this elsewhere. Don't even grieve for this. When you cook this havi form body, then give it to the ancestors to protect it. Let the soul of this ghost go to the fatherland. (4)
The desires are lit, well-tempered and located in their beloved place. The deepest, holy, visible and great agnis make the earth and the sky more new as their parents. 
O Indra! Because of your defense we consume new wealth. The Stotas praise you in the yajna with these hymns. You gave money to the Purukutsa king by killing the enemy people who obstructed the yajnakarma. You broke the seven cities of Sharat Asuras by thunderbolt. 
Swaha for Indra Dev. Swaha for health. Swaha for fattening. Swaha for the psalm. Swaha for the child. Swaha for those who sing sukta for Havi. Swaha for the gods. Swaha for those who drink havi. Please drink Indra Dev Havi. Please perform yajna for the host Indra Dev. (11)
The rays of The Mon, who has stunned the paradise, the possessor of the earth, are spread all over the place and filled in characters. Som had held the elaborate dyava-prithvivi. Give food to the som stotas who perform yajnakarma. 
O Indra! Destroy those who do not squeeze somers, those who do not cause misery, and those who do not bring happiness. Give us the money of such people. Your stota gets wealth. 
Worldwide, the somras-related intoxication of the sages named Yajat and Mayi is as fast as that of the hawk and as wide as aditi. They beg each other to drink somras and finally get a special type of item. 
O Indra! At the time when your sages started the yajna kriya related to you in the yajnashala, you saved him by boarding a boat with the host. 
O agni! Please the man whom you have consumed. How much water should be poured here so that the grass can grow at this place? (6)
O Indra! You drink somras with the season. Satiating and sheltering mons enter your body. 
 O agni! You are the giver of all. You are worshiped with praise full of knowledge. You are shining. You give us the vibrant wealth. 
The earth that The Ashchinikumars built, the earth on which Vishnu displayed might and the earth on which Indra subjugated him and made it inferior to the enemies, that earth should feed me its essence water in the same way as the mother feeds the son. (10)
This man left out of the planet Brahma should remember the Vedas etc. scriptures studied in the past and know the places of residence of living beings, because there are a hundred vaidyas and a thousand herbs who treat this man accepted from the planet. (3)
O learned warrior! Today, worship Tvashta Dev, who creates all the worlds like heaven, earthland etc. (34)
 O agni! You are truthful and vindrashta. You are going to hear our praise. Happiness and you are divine. We pray to you with speech. The hosts honor you for happiness. 
O like the leaders and the seeable AshwaniKumaro! You meet Usha by your chariot. Horses are added to your chariot with enough grain as soon as you desire. 
Working in this state of consciousness, there is no loss or adverse result, and even a little effort saves one from great danger.
O friend B Varun Dev! You irrigate us with cow's ghee here. You irrigate our fields with sweet nectar. (8)
Indra, who handles the load, subdues all the enemies. Despite being difficult for odan to cook with the mantra, he pierced it. (11)
 O Mon! You are Madhuman. We are your sons. You flow to please Indra. You are holy and never destroyed. Please go to the gods to give them pleasure. 
Your chariot, with three types of food, with somras-laced and horses, goes to the front, destroying the darkness that has spread around in the early days of Usha and spreading the brightness like the sun. 
Just as a person on a chariot with a chariot attains happiness, so so does the young age of Subandhu increase. A man of a lost age attains his preferred age. Your sin is destroyed. 
In the cave of the yajna of the Tritta, the present and the gayatri, who wears the ritvaja yajna, who is wearing the ritva yajna, who came to the thrones of squeezing the present and the strong juice like stone, praises Som through seven verses. 
O man caught by death! I have taken you away from death and thus gained you. O one who is born again! You have come into the world again. O full limbs! Your eyes, etc., the senses should be the ones that illuminate their own subject. I have attained your hundred years of age. (20)
You climb every tree like a cow that desires a bull. You conquer and remain situated, so your name is remembered. (3)
The gem that Jupiter god tied to get the same velocity as air, the same happy gem has been given to us by King Varuna. May that gem provide truth to this host every day and again. O host! With the help of this, you destroy your enemy. (15)
 O Indra! You are adorned with light. You also illuminate heaven. All the gods want to be your friends. Please come. 
The Stotagans praise Soma, being purified by ancient sagas. The fingers that turn for the work of the gods are able to give the gods the form of soma-form. 
O Indra! Protect us to consume your given food. Those who give themselves a tribute to you, protect them too. May your stota have the power in me to praise you admirable. You always protect us by means of welfare. 
Hey Mon! In the people in which there is a constant light, heaven is hidden, take me to the same immortal and unimpressed realm. You shower juice for Indra. 
If the praise we have given us enables Indra to separate and hold the earth and the sky, then only our innocent praises are meaningful. All the powers of Indra are nature perfect. 
Give us a three-storey house, the godless, the omniscient and sinless, the god who gave food to the fasting ocean, the worshiper, the worshiper, the important Vishnu, vayu, ashwinikumar and the stota. 
O milk! Just as all birds are afraid of the eagle and all beings are afraid of the lion, so you rumble towards the enemies and frighten them and fascinate their minds. (6)
O Mon, with the help of stones! You cross the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. The green mons enter the characters called Chamu in this way, just as man enters the city. Hey Mon! You make a place in dronakalash. 
O Indra! You are a consumer. You weaken your enemies. Don't you undermine me. You give me the privilege of getting money. May my intellect move towards deeds. (3)
The nation where he went, that is, a Brahmin without a wife, lives at night with the feeling of sin, the owner of that nation does not have a cow welfare and does not pull the yoke of bullock cart or chariot. (18)
Saraswati Devi and Ashwini Kumars produced bright nectar from milk. Urine is grown. Semen produced. Ignorant intellect removed the obstacles caused by malice. Arrangements were made to remove the hive and vata. (84)
O agni! In the midst of human beings, sage Bhrigu held you to attain divine birth in the same way that people handle the best wealth. You can easily listen to the call of the people and you are the ones who call upon the gods. You are revered as a guest in the yajnasthan and give as much happiness as a friend. 
Indra is worthy of praise, worthy of calling, truthfulness, anti-enemy, doing many deeds and even when alone, he is an enemy. 
The desire of the mind should be fulfilled. Speech should hold the truth. Increase the juice of animals, forms and food. Fame, beauty and credit increased. We offer sacrifices for the enhancement of all this. (4)
 O Mon! You make us luminous. May you give us heavenly happiness. You make us fortunate and successful after enemy victory. 
Indra, the master of power, the great, the infinite virtuous and the great one to the stoetas, holds the enemy's victorious vajra. Just as the Father protects the Son's desired object, so may Indra protect the things we want. 
The Sanskrit ahuti of gandharva wife and water describing the qualities of the ane has made the agni specially satiated. My mind was well engaged in the chanting of praises. Let the unbroken agni place us in the middle of the yagna. Especially praise the chief of hosts, that is, my elder brother Agni. 
This is the hymn! In this yajna, praise the most successful of all the happenings and the chief agni in the yajna. 
My whole body shudders; my hair is standing on end. My bow, the Gāṇḍīv, is slipping from my hand, and my skin is burning all over. My mind is in quandary and whirling in confusion; I am unable to hold myself steady any longer. O Krishna, killer of the Keshi demon, I only see omens of misfortune. I do not foresee how any good can come from killing my own kinsmen in this battle.
O Ashwinikumaro! You provided a variety of protections to the Sage Kanva tied by the demon Shanrus in the lower part of the palace. 
O Sun God! May we live for more than a hundred years. (8)
O Tilak tree, the gift of gem! You are the best of all trees, because other trees are seekers of limited fruit, and you are superior because of all the opinion fruit, just as the bull is superior among pet fours and the tiger is superior among violent wild animals. We got what we wanted with your help. My desired object is going to be a hindrance to the opposing agent and very close to me. (11)
The core of the Shyen cow i.e. womb or side, space pajasya (stomach), Jupiter kakud, i.e. that is, and brihati verses are bones.   (5)
Just as the rivers flow downwards, so do the enemy, the fast-moving and pervasive Som go to dronakalash. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Follow the people who possess the truth. The agnis strengthen those subjects and the Brahmins protect that subjects through the agni god who carries the yajna. (2)
Just as Indra completes his shanrustic army, so he had completed the rivers that broke the banks, filled with water and the tributaries in the production of food and quenched the thirst of the thirsty, Indra made milk of cows that were captured by the demons and which had produced the calf. 
 Hey friend! You are sitting in the best place. We worship them for rain. They provide everything on earth by law, are charitable and the masters of food. 
The Stotas connect with the hymns with the hymns the aschas called Hari, who carry Indra and connect with the mere command, in the great chariot of the moving Indra. 
This is the hymn! Sing a song related to food and food to the bright flames, the eternal youth and the beautified agni. They give the breathless semen to The Satota by listening to the praise of the agni and the words of truth and receiving the sacrifice of the curse. 
Varun, Som and Agni Dev come here for karma. Jupiter dev come here with eight Vasus. O brothers of equal birth! All of you become equal-minded and subject to this powerful and non-functional host. (1)
Working under my direction, this material energy brings into being all animate and inanimate forms, O son of Kunti. For this reason, the material world undergoes the changes (of creation, maintenance, and dissolution).
O Indra! Vajini's son Bharadwaj calls you willingly to get the great food that everyone wants. When the disturbance comes to the fore, I call indra, the guardian of the gentlemen and the destroyer of the wicked. I fight the enemies for the cows and kill them with punches. 
Oh, without death and agni, the angel! You bring the gods to this yagna while listening to the praises of the meritorious Bharadwaj. 
Oh my god! We place you in a space occupied by a triple stom. We establish you by meditating on the light of the fifteen-day moon. We establish you by meditating on Saptadash Stom Swaroop Prajapati. We establish you by meditating on the twenty-one storm form. We establish you with eighteen stems i.e. twelve months, five seasons, one year. Asceticism establishes the deities with nineteen hymns. Twelve months, seven seasons, samvatsar form, after meditating on the twenty number deity, we meditate on the 20-number varcha deity with the samvatsar form and establish it. They meditate on the sambharan deity and establish it. People grow twenty-four stems. We set you up by meditating on the vagina god. Trinava establishes you by meditating on ojasvi deva. You establish yourself by meditating on thirty-one hymns useful for yajna. By meditating on the yagna deity, you establish it. Thirty-three establish god as a form of prestige. By meditating on the thirty-four gods who reside in the sun, they establish you. Brahma Vishtap establishes you by remembering thirty-five gods. (23)
O ghost! May the deities, who have taken the full urns from charu as their part, may the charu equip you with swadha in the hereafter. (25)
Indra, Agni and Soma were born wishing for fame. I am also more successful than all beings who are interested in fame. (3)
Som is king and amrit. They keep us away from death. They provide truth, strength and power of Indra in the senses through yajna. They provide milk, nectar and honey from yajna. (72)
Indra, who wanted to get the head of his horse hidden in the mountains, had received it in Sharyanavat, then he killed the asuras by making a thunderbolt of it. (2)
O supreme and supreme Indra! You were born holding the famous name far away. At that time all the gods were afraid of you and you conquered all the waters stopped by the vritra. 
You play on the front part of the mother and father tree. You seem more willing to speak. Don't talk too much. (25)
O Indra! You drink somers with quick intoxicating and charu purodash. You leave your dynamic horses to come here. Other hosts couldn't satisfy you. We've squeezed this somras for you. 
Hey Mon! When you run towards Dashapavitra, crushed by stones, you are enough for Indra's belly. 
O act! The agent has placed you on a schaaf i.e. topped and toothed (horse or donkey) animal on either side. We return you to him who sent you.  (3)
O Parth, those who do not accept their responsibility in the cycle of sacrifice established by the Vedas are sinful. They live only for the delight of their senses; indeed their lives are in vain.
Hey Varun! We call you by laying the kush, putting it in the agni after filling the havya in the khuch, squeezing the somras and lighting the agni. 
O Indra Dev! Thousands of hosts offer you. You accept the havi offered by the host. You crush our nearest enemies. You make abusive enemies resourceless. You destroy such enemies. You can spread terror everywhere. You are going to get an increase from all sides. You are requested to make Vritrasur footless. You destroy Vritrasura. (69)
The money sought by the ritwij etc. should come to the hosts every day and the food should inspire us to perform the yajna. 
The first bone on the right side is related to Agni, the other side is related to Air, the third side is related to Indra Dev, the fourth bone is related to Aditi Devi and the sixth side is related to Indrani Devi. The bone on the seventh side is related to Marud Dev, the eighth side is related to Jupiter Dev, the bone on the ninth side is related to Aryama Dev and the tenth side is related to The Bone Dhata. The ashes on the eleventh side are related to Indra Dev, the ashes on the twelfth side are related to Varun Dev and the thirteenth side is related to Yama Dev. (4)
Just as the chariot is sent to battle, the ten fingers of both hands send Som to the yagnasthala. At the same time that the stotas make the place of Som, the cow's milk goes to Som. 
In the battle carried out by horses and arms, the two great deeds of Soma are to rain arrows and defeat enemies. Through these two actions, Som killed the enemy and drove him out of the battlefield. Hey Mon! Drive away the enemies and agni choosers. 
O agni! You are holy and highly dominated. You rise in the form of the sun. Just as parents nurture sons, so you follow both heaven and earthland. (107)
Lord Krishna said: O mighty-armed son of Kunti, what you say is correct; the mind is indeed very difficult to restrain. But by practice and detachment, it can be controlled.
O scholar! I'm not talking to you about competition. I am only asking to know how many agnis, sun bodies and water are. 
Oh mystico! Mix the smooth cushions with ghee and mix them with each other. Nectar will be placed on it. 
We call Indra, Vayu and Jupiter to this yagna, who are invoicing the shobhan. Let all of them be happy to give us money together. 
 O Mon! You are holy. Som grows a huge electricity-like fast called Vaishwanar in Swarglok. 
O Shur Indra! You wish for the mantras of rudra-related Rigveda. The praises that you are pleased with the mantras are used for you who come to our yajna. 
Know that I am like the brilliance of the sun that illuminates the entire solar system. The radiance of the moon and the brightness of the fire also come from me.
Indra, for whose yajna infertile cows, bulls and bulls are brought, indra, who attains heaven, in the yagyas, pillars with knots are erected and for whom the means of squeezing and pure someras is filtered, that Indra should save us from sin. (4)
Let our wealth increase with k. May yajna increase our wealth. Let us be strengthened by money. Let us be strong with splendour. Let us be strengthened by the Lord. Let us be fully confirmed. Let us be fully confirmed. We should increase the food of animals here. Let us increase in renewable food and our hunger. May yajna be all-fruitful for us. (10)
Indra sits on his chariot like a superior prince. They cook food for their father Dyawa and mother Prithvi. (12)
We will win the cows and war with the bow 
O acclaimed agni! May your flames be bright and fast. O agni, increasing! Bum go up and down. May all the God of Worship receive you today. 
I have received the grace of the true Father Indra. I am born as light as the sun. 
Please protect from all sides with Indra Basus. Please protect (you) from the West with Varuna Rudras. Please protect Yama from the south with the ancestors. Please protect from the north with Vishwakarma Adityas. We sprinkle water that satisfies you with yajna. (11)
 Som is a poet. As soon as poet Som accepts the praise of man, Indra is ready to come to the yagna place with his power. 
I remove a hundred diseases like leprosy, ringworm, hundred Gandharvas and a hundred nymphs. I remove hundreds of diseases like insanity, which come to give pain again and again, with 100 medicines. (6)
O night! We dwell in you. We sleep at night, but stay awake. Bum give happiness to our cows, horses and family members. (9)
Hey Ritvijo! You squeeze the somras for Indra. They drink the same sweet somras. They also give money along with food to the stoetas by their importance. 
O Aditya Dev! The man who takes the abomination of the cow and gives you the gift, let the man be the master of the food. No one can destroy or defeat what you protect. He cannot even touch sin from near or from a distance. 
Adhwaryu etc. milk the stones that rain juices and squeeze the somers while holding it in their hands. They milk somersaform milk by the force of the work. 
O men! These sun-like indras give knowledge to the ignorant and illuminate the things covered with darkness. They have risen with their rays. O men! See indra in the form of this sun. (12)
O sacrificial instruments! You are the hero of the gods. We receive you from the arms of Ashwinikumars inspired by Savita. We receive you from the hands of Pusha Dev, who is not an Aryan. (You come) you strike the necks of those demons. You are our friend. Please keep our malice away from us. We sanctify you for heaven, space and earth. You are like a father to us. Your house is like a father's house for us. (1)
We have taken thousands of money from kings called Dhvasa and Purushunti. Soma, who protects the psalms from sin, walks. 
Agni Dev would have been the best and beloved word and the divine poet should be present in our yajna in these two forms. 
O Indra and Agni! Let us not receive violence by any human being. Give us you pleasure. 
Gorup Ahuti moves upwards by holding the back of the calf-shaped fire with its front legs and the next part with its hind legs. Where does she go and for whom does she return from the middle? Where does she give birth to a calf? She does not produce a calf in a group of other cows then. 
 O Mon! You are an intellectual and knowledgeable person. To extract your juice, it is placed between two panes 
O one-sided! This Samvatsar has arrived. This is your husband. You made us rich by making our children more old along with your husband Samvatsar. (8)
Tell me who you are, so fierce of form. O God of gods, I bow before you; please bestow your mercy on me. You, who existed before all creation, I wish to know who you are, for I do not comprehend your nature and workings.
There are four Vedas similar to the horns of the sacrificial agni. It has three stages as savans. It has two heads as celibacy and pravargya. It has seven hands in the form of verses. These agni devmantras, kalpas and brahmins are bound by these three bonds and make great words. They are entered among the great gods humans. 
This is the earth! You have been rich in food, dhenu and shobhan barley with the desire to donate to the son of the son of the saint. O Vishnu! You have possessed the dyava-prithvi in many ways. You have held the earth with the help of mountains everywhere. 
Weep! Why do you have to be called again and again like an old and old person? 
O Lord Indra! You transcend all the hymns and look at me, come quickly and give me detailed praise. 
We worship you as part-free, the gatherer of relationships, the recipient of relationships. (3)
In the form of welfare rain, you get juice and increase the ones born. (15)
Ushadevi, who inspired chariots, used to do prabhat in ancient times and still does prabhat. Just as those interested in wealth row a boat in the sea, chariots are prepared when Usha arrives. 
O anointing Indra! For you, the parents of the world, the earth and the sky, opened the door of the pangs when they offered the milk of the strong, semen-rich and rich milch cows to the fire. 
The ignorant agent who has sent the act to those who live in dignity through the evil way, we return the act to those who are engaged in the same way. (10)
Just as day and night are neither afraid, apprehensive nor destroyed by anyone, O my life! In the same way, do not be afraid of shannu, planet, disease etc. (2)
O Indra! You protected the dogs in the war by getting shushrusha from the body at that time, at which time you subdued Das, Shushna and Kuyava, giving money to Katsa, the son of Arjuna. 
Hey Mon! You must fall to us rich, destroy all our enemies and enter into the body of your friend Indra. 
 Destroy monsters and other vichartas with its strong flames. May agni give us all kinds of wealth 
I root out the creepers in our hands, feet, etc., in the ears and in the eyes. I also turn down the disease of electricity, heart disease and tuberculosis of unknown nature. (3)
Today, we praise the bright, praiseworthy, the most innovative, the quick-moving horses of the maruts, those who reach everywhere because of the abundance of power, the masters of water and the lordly people. 
O Indra Dev! There is no one better than you. No god is richer than you, no deity scholar is more than you. No one like you has been created, nor will it arise. No one has done or will do the same thing as you do. (79)
Hey Rudra! Do not do violence against the elderly, the child, the inseminable young man and the pregnant child, the violence of our mother or father and also the destruction of our beloved body. 
 Prajapati, who follows the subjects, resides in heaven. May they be pleased to give us enlightenment and fame. May they please provide us with the best food and food items related to the yajna. 
May the gods protect us from the earth on which Vishnu had set several steps with his seven verses like Gayatri etc. 
Your throat may dry up because of the burning and the wounding arrow, and because of that throat, unable to express your intention, come close to me. You become soft-spoken, the only protector from me and speak in favor of me and behave in favor of me. (4)
We call on Indra, who is an anti-enemy, who is not destroyed by others, possessed of many defense tools, who has many deeds, equal to all, surrounds wealth and sends money to hosts to protect ourselves. 
All the terrible deeds and death-giving causes are prevalent in this cow of Brahmin. (2)
The well-squeezed and green mons make the words again and again and sit inside the dronaclash and make the words while filtering. The mons caught by the ritwijas reveal their shape by covering the cow's milk etc. This stotao! Offer praises with havyas for such a mon. 
The young night and usha are different and are going to be born every day. They come to the sky and the earth and wander forever. Raat is black and Usha is bright. 
The general and the shur som go in front of the chariots in the battle, wishing to get the songs of the enemies. This pleases Som's army. Som takes indra's aavaan, making them beneficial for his friend hosts, and milk etc. Milk etc. are the reasons for the early arrival of Indra. 
O Ashchinikumaro stayed with us. 
The gods, who were quick, powerful, ornate in the fastening of the earth, the great bright, the ones who participated in the yajna, those who were called by the anne and the characters of the truth, created the water at the time of the war of victory. 
Apart from the food that this body had eaten while being dilapidated, nothing is favorable for this. There is no other place for this except this crematorium. O land! You should cover the father received at the crematorium in the same way as the wife covers her husband with a cloth. (51)
O ashwinikumaro who follows many! You gave money to my son Vishnuyu with the desire to give money. I call you with the aim of getting the offspring of sage Ashwaka. Don't destroy our friendship. You come here and separate the reins of your horses. 
 O agni! The hosts you become friends with get the best children who protect the grain. 
Truth contains other agnis. The agnis that are illuminated in water are different from this. Men who wish to attain the sun-like heaven have worshiped those agnis. Which is increased by mantras. (50)
O serpent named Arbudi! When our enemy man died when you cut him, his wife cried, beating his chest, shedding tears, with no hair cut from jewelry, hair scattered. (7)
You rise up and save us from our sins with the help of knowledge and burn all the demons. Make us advanced to move around the world and take our wealth to the gods to keep us alive. 
O Indra! The praises of the sages please you by performing many yagnas and praises of the hosts. You should despise all other praisers, calling this praise a decoration and be before me with the means of defense. 
This dakshina-rupee money was given by Prajapati to Prajapati. The one who gives dakshina is desirous of transcendental fruit and the taker is desirous of cosmic fruit. Thus, both the giver and the taker of Dakshina are willing. The form of desire is as unlimited as the ocean. Desire is not the end. O Dakshina Dravya! I receive you with this kind of desire. O desire! This accepted money is for you. (7)
The host who follows the path of the Adityas, who lives near the water by becoming pure, un-harmed by enemies, the owner of more food, the owner of shobhan sons and the owner of beautiful crops. No one living near or far away can do violence to him. 
When the working Indra broke usha's vehicle, the frightened usha got down from the broken vehicle. 
The people praise agni like the fast-moving horse and the gentleman-abiding Indra. Fire fills our chariots with wealth and destroys the enemy's food and wealth by power. 
 As Som Bhai is dear, like a son protected in the arms of his parents and a kami man is attracted to a woman and a groom to a girl, So Som is going towards Dronakalash. 
O Mon! You are delicious. You flow to friends, Pusha, Bhaga and Dhanvendra 
Indra drank the stomach-filling som and stabilized the moving and trembling clouds. At that time heaven began to scramble and the space became corrupt. Indra keeps the interconnected diava- earth in the same condition. 
O agni! You worship the gods in our yajna through the flames of pleasure. Bring the gods here and give them a havya. 
O Indra and Varuna with the power to draw enemies! Be the one you fight ahead of us in each war. Both the ancient and the new stotas call you on occasions of son and grandson-bearing. 
O father as heaven, mother as earth and brotherly form agni and vasuo! All of you make us happy. Hey all Aditya and Aditi! You have the same love and give us more happiness. 
Space appeared from the navel of the supreme man. Heaven appeared from the head of the Supreme Man. The ground appeared from the feet of the supreme man. Directions appeared from the ears of the supreme man. The Supreme Man has created many worlds. (13)
O pure agni! The bright maruts worshiped you for three years, and you appeared. It was only then that with your compassion, they got names and bodies to be used in the yajna. 
The sages named Angira are everywhere. Cherish our hymns in particular. The rivers flow with water. The host and his wife should form the form of the yajna. 
O capable of wicked rebellion! You are capable of destroying thieves and smugglers. You are uniquely powerful. You leave chordaku and give it to us other people. O Goddess! Our greetings to you. (62)
Som set up in Havirdhan is taken towards the aahwaniya country. At this time, adhwaryu etc. give them to the gods through the path of adornment. 
Hey Mon! Bring indra, the money lender, at the time of the book and song of the song of the song as a stream in the three sawans of my triat. The hymn with adornment is spoken by the hymns that Indra receives. 
By wearing or eating a guarpatha, I will neutralize my opposing speakers in the same way that Indra defeated the asuras who took the form of wild dogs. O God! Defeat the opponents who question me and dry the throats of my opposing speakers so that they cannot speak. (5)
O Vishwakarma who holds food in a havrup! Give us the most auspicious, or the best, the middle and the ordinary body that you have, by attaining the greetings. You do the yajna yourself while increasing your body. 
O Somras squeezer adhwaryu! Somras do as the chief for the man-made, heroic and mighty Indra. Drink Indra Somras. 
O radiant, blessed with tears and enemies, Ashwinikumaro! Wish for the praises of your devotee and devour the havya presented by us. 
Just as Indra threw foam in the struggle to kill Namuchi, the Vastoshpatis are moving away from us. The songs that the Angiragotrian sages had given us as Dakshina were not accepted by the short-minded Vastospati, when they were able to accept them. 
O Rich God Indra! We praise you who look at everyone with grace. On hearing our praises, you should fill the chariot with the money you give to the psalms and come close to the wishing hosts and for this, add your horses named Hari to the chariot. 
O goo! You are very beautiful and energetic. You make the host a gopati. O agni! You live day and night near the host. We bow to you with reverence. We come to you. (22)
There are two kinds of beings in creation, the kṣhar (perishable) and the akṣhar (imperishable). The perishable are all beings in the material realm. The imperishable are the the liberated beings.
O God! Do not destroy the trees that fill the uncles, but destroy those who condemn me. Just as the bahelis spread the net to trap the birds, so so no enemy can bind me. 
O ancient and dull mon! Illuminate the divine places for us and inspire us to perform yajnakarma and attain power. 
I make the weapons of my kings sharp-edged and adorn their kingdom with adorned heroes. Their physical strength should be devoid of old age and conquering enemies. May all gods protect their war-oriented minds. (5)
O Shataudana Gau! Eight Vasus will protect you from south, forty-nine will be on the north side and Aditya will protect you from behind. You go across the Agnishtom Yajna. (8)
The people of diverse forms who have originated from Angira Duloka around the agni have obtained the wealth of the cow by performing yajna for nine or ten months. The best agni in the Angiras give us wealth with the gods. 
O earth! May our people living in you be free from tuberculosis. Let us be equipped with our long life and give you strength. (62)
Somers flows as a river for some ancestors. Other ancestors consume ghee. For those who recite the mantras of Atharvaveda in Brahma Yag, madhu i.e. the river of honey. O ghost of the dead! You get them all. (14)
Just as umbrellas grown in the rainy season are easily crushed with feet, so Indra will abuse those who do not perform yajna. When will Indra listen to our prayers? 
O seat! You are like the skin of the earth. Please sit on the yagyavedi. The strong Varuna measures heaven. Measure space space. Measure the earth.' They are prevalent in all worlds. Their brats are well aware. (30)
Prajapati, who gives life and peace to all beings, all beings and gods also believe in the rule and is the swami of two-legged humans and four-legged animals. We worship this type of Prajapati Dev by Havi. (1)
O swami! Be aware of this holder while carefully protecting him. Do not commit violence to you, that is, demons and demons. Just as Indra shook his enemies while driving them away from the battlefield, so you should vibrate the robbers. Especially defeat all the enemies who desire war. May the unarmed gem protect you. (2)
May the horse called Hari, who is full of desire and repeatedly walking in space, bring Indra to our yagna. May the horses adorning the yajna and the moving take you to the yajnas. 
Ten Vatsas with a head worship them. (6)
 O hosts! We hope Indra is pleased with our prayers. They will definitely come to us with their protection and splendour. 
O agni! This altar of yours is going to give birth to the season. Born from this, you shine. Please know this and climb it. Please increase our wealth. (52)
Today, the gods should kill the demon and the sin god in such a way that they do not come back. Let the demons or those who curse us who satisfy sin go towards them. Whoever strikes through the untruth word, the arrows of the gods should be placed in his heart. That demon fell into the flame of the agni god who pervades the world. (14)
May friends and Varuna give us famous happiness and protect our sons and grandsons. Let us not bear the fruits of the sin sins of others. O Vasuo! Let us not do what you destroy because of. 
The Rudras, Adityas, Vasus, Sadhyas, Vishvadevas, Ashwini Kumars, Maruts, ancestors, Gandharvas, Yakshas, Asuras, and Siddhas are all beholding you in wonder.
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn me may be six and sixty-six, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (6)
The attempter consisted of similar earths. (7)
O god, the leader of the yajna! Just as the boat takes us across the water, so you take us across the great enemy army. 
 Vishnu conducts the world by wearing dharma in his three legs. They are everywhere. 
O men! You cleanse the disease of the head in lead, in the grass named Nad and in the black sheep. (19)
O Yagyabhilashi Indra! You are very happy to take away the money of your slanderer. O Indra with more wealth! To protect us, hide us between your two thighs and kill the dasas who hate us with weapons. 
The ancient sages meditate on Jupiter, who also pillared the end of the earth with his ghosh. He is the swami of Jupiter's pleasing tongue. Learned Brahmins give Jupiter the first place. (1)
Let these songs come back to me again and again and let me come to Gopal and be confirmed. O agni! Keep these cows with me. This cowish money stayed with me. 
O health-giving Indra and Agni! Even if you are located among the group of Yadu, Turvash, Anu, Druhuyu and Puru people, come from all these places and drink squeezed somras. 
May the army of our enemies become covered with smoke emanating from Maya. Their ears become deaf because of the eagles of our battlefield. In this way, when the enemy's army is conquered by a god named Trishandhi, the flags of the dev army become red in color. (7)
We place the world (sun) in the west direction. Eyes were born from him. The rainy season originated from the world. Jagati verses originated from the rainy season. From that, Rishabha sam was born. Venus originated from Mercury and Sama. Seven hundredtoms originated from the planet Venus. Vairupa Sam originated from SaptadashTom. The chief of all this is Jamdagni Rishi. With the help taken from Prajapati, we take eyes for the people. (56)
O Richeswami and Indra who hears praises! Be our sole protector from the enemies who have attacked with the desire to snatch our cows or who strike us by force. 
O seeable Indra! Who will not know your glory when he hears your praises? O furious Indra!  Who will not understand your power and wealth? 
O Creator Indra! This nectar-like somras makes you look like a horse. It is the basis of force and the life of all. 
Hota performed yajna with food and confirmatory substances. In the yajna, medicines, plums, sprouted paddy etc. were offered to the gods. Honey, ghee, milk and soma are obtained for these gods. Please do yajna for the welfare of all. (31)
 O Mon! You are holy. You deserve a lot of worship. You go to the gods. Please make us successful after conquering your enemies. 
The host, who ignites the anni, lays the kush and squeezes the mon with a stone in his hand, praises carefully. The adhwaryu, whose stone makes the sweet word, bathes in the river with a havya. 
Run the ladle and take the rice that has been cooked. They should not do violence to anyone and get medicinal fruits in every festival. The creepers whose king is Som, these vines should be salvation. (31)
The mother of the rich, the one who desires food, the one who unites the maruts and the revered earth everywhere, gives somras to the maruts. 
Oh, this desireful Indra! You make this bride with beautiful sons and good fortune. Give me ten sons and my husband the eleventh. 
 O Indra! You are a great man. Horses 
The act made by the Shudra, made by the king, made by the woman and inspired by mantras should return to her creator in the same way as the wife sent off by the brothers returns to her husband. (3)
O Narada! Trees also consider the brahmin's wealth as their wealth and do not want it to come under their shadow. (9)
I call upon the adorned invocation, the purifier, the seer, the seer, the comforter, and the nurturing deserts of wealth to find friendship, and I especially meditate on them to get food. We ask for special protection from the gods today. 
I should not meet vampires, thieves and robbers living in the forest, vampires should run away from the village I enter and live in. (7)
O Indra, lord of hundreds of properties! Sit us on the wide chariot pulled by horses skilled in carrying. Give us the best of all kinds of food. O Dhanaswami Indra! No one could overtake us in terms of money. 
We, who are willing to praise, are those who are rich in food and desirous of wealth, we call both of them by praise to get the fruits of the yajna. 
O Maruto, who rejoices by praise! When did you leave Indra? Who wanted your friendship? 
Hota performs yagna for Indra Dev. They are vritrasurashakashaks and sukhadatas. Som is accompanied by Anandadata and Ayudhari. We worship them again and again through our prayers. We perform yajna for Indra Dev. We praise him in the verse anushtup. Through sense power, we offer sacrifices to them with panchavi cows (rays prevailing in panchabhutas). Please take sacrifice with Prayaj Dev Indradi Devta. (26)
We praise the space-related yajna with knowledge as well as giving the leader sages a hand full of ghee like a character called khuch. He had the skill of crossing the world like the earthly sun and the food of paradise. 
Meritorious, fearless and knowing duty and non-duty, Agni makes all the food delicious in the same way as the breast of a cow makes delicious milk. On being called to the yajna, Agni come and sit in the place of sacrifice like a benevolent person. 
 O Mon! Your juice is green. Refined somerus is a disinfectant. Its stream is bright and tamhari 
O Indra admirable by the praises! Each time our eulogies go to you every time we go to Somers, just as the milch cows go to the calves. 
At the time when Indra and Vrithra were at loggerheads, the electricity, thunder, water rain and ashani that Vrithra had used from Maya could not stop Indra. At the same time, Inder also conquered the other maya of Vrittar. 
The land on which the trees that produce vegetation stand firmly, they serve everyone as a tree dispenser. We praise such a dharma dependent earth. (27)
Usha, who holds wealth, has come red, sharp-edged, great, colorful and knowing because of the rays. Ushadevi wakes up the sleeping beings and comes to find happiness through a well-plowed chariot. 
The deserts will go to which of the best-giving hosts today by their chariot? 
The green soma wears Indra, who is steadfast in wars. It is Soma who inspires Indra's horses to go towards the yagna. Indra, who comes to the yajna with speed by his horse, reaches the host of Someras. (2)
Goddess Usha used to give light every day in the past, Usha, the owner of wealth, still rids this world of darkness and will provide light in the future days. She wanders with her speed, without any and death. 
O Udumbar Shakhe (sycamore wood)! Please elevate heaven, complete space and weaken earth. The deserts expand the paradise. (27)
Initiation is received from Brat. Dakshina is obtained from initiation. Reverence is filled with Dakshina. Truth is obtained by faith. (30)
The child drinking milk tortures the mother while getting married, in the same way we want to get rid of the debt of the parents. Parents are welfare. Please remove or separate us from sins. (11)
 Hey Yazko! Indra, the one who performed yajna, is the swami of cows. They are the sustainers of the hosts. He is the son of yajna and protector of truth. Praise them wholeheartedly. 
Bharati means that the voice should come with the Suryavanshi people and Ida and agni with gods and human beings. Saraswati should come with the Saraswatjans. These three ladies come and sit on the cushions in front of us. 
 O Mon! You are mixed with maddayi and cow's milk. You filter from the holy stream. Please enter Indra's stomach. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You have orbited vast space because of the vast earth and the quality and form. O goddess of adornment! You both take the form of drugs and people, always following the one who follows the truth. 
I praise the perfect son of his father, the protector of his father, the one who gave houses and valuables for habitation, the destroyer of the enemies, the one who consumes and the one who provides a red horse. 
The agnis that are generated are produced in the morning and are bright and located in their friend forests. After that, the agni holds seven beautiful flames and each is in the yajnashala and sits down as a yajanya. 
This is indra admired and wealthy by the huge hymn! You expand our forces and give us money. A sightseeing Indra! You are as knowledgeable as a friend and Varun. You give us food. 
I have done such and such a thing in the first night. I destroy that bad dream through the sins and defects I receive every day in waking state, in a dormant state, in the day or at night. (11)
The three-legged giant men rose up. Only one stage of them was located here. After that they became pervasive as food and non-food items. 
As a swan sits in water, in the same way fire wakes up everyone in the morning and fire gets power from water. Agni increases all medicines like Soma and was sitting in water in a shrinking position Like a baby in the womb, when grains grew so Agnis light spread far and wide. 
Just as the farmer ploughs the field repeatedly by bulls, so the sun brought me six seasons in order. These seasons were consisting of somras. 
O Swami Som! May you be situated happily in heaven, may our rituals also be located in heaven. You decide in your mind that you have to give me the fruit of this ritual. O God! In this way, you become graceful minded. (5)
Indra said, "If we do not go out of the vagina, which is the tradition, our mother will die." That's how we'll get out soon.  Vamdev began to say, "Indra drank the somras in the house of Tvashta, which was squeezed by stones and worth hundreds of ratnas." 
Let two such horses be given to us by King Varu soon, who in a group of horses called Hari are more resistant to the enemies, skilled in war and are human-borne. 
 O Mon! You are holy and great. You are going to do good to others like a yajna. You hold the best semen for the host. You reach the worship of worshippers. 
O Ritvijo! The Indra who opens the horses from his chariot and sits in the yagna calmly, praise Indra worthy of praise for the welfare of the host. (1)
The ritwija people squeeze this non-violent and sacrificial monstrosity with the help of stones with the help of full intellect from all desires. 
O aschinikumaro who showers money! The voicelike praise of my best hymn has been made for you. The great host who finds both of you gives you a gift. O Ashwinikumaro who knows madhuvidya! You listen to my call. 
Surrender exclusively unto him with your whole being, O Bharat. By his grace, you will attain perfect peace and the eternal abode.
O ghost! In your Pitramegh Yagya, there should be agni, Jupiter should do the work of Adhwaryu and Indra is Brahma. This yajna completed in this way gets the place of many yajnas performed earlier. (15)
The common and famous ushas everywhere move from the sky to the east only and become praiseworthy of the water-producing rays, making the yajnashala a matter of knowledge. 
With your fiery tongues you are licking up the hosts of living beings on all sides and devouring them with your blazing mouths. O Vishnu, you are scorching the entire universe with the fierce, all-pervading rays of your effulgence.
With thousands of streams, with hundreds of powers, the radiant and filtered Mons play like a child on dasapavittra made of sheep's hair. 
Worshippers of the celestial gods take birth amongst the celestial gods, worshippers of the ancestors go to the ancestors, worshippers of ghosts take birth amongst such beings, and my devotees come to me alone.
O Maruto, those who dance and wear gold ornaments on the breastspot! Man also comes to you to find your friendship. So you speak on our side. In a highly worthy yajna, your brotherhood is always present. 
O woman! Just as the vast earth holds the body of creatures, so your womb should also be located to be born at the time of delivery. (1)
O workman Ashwinikumaro! Be pleased with the Somras, please us and destroy the panies altogether. Listen to My praises that have been made to suit you and to give you satisfaction. Hey leaders! You explore and store praises. 
Hey Mon! You're gonna see all the realms. O water year mon! You speed in a variety of ways. You give us wealth with cows and gold and we are able to survive in the world. 
 O Indra! You are worthy of worship, glorious and very vast. You give us money so that we become strong minded. You make us powerful. 
O mother and fatherly earth and sky! Make the praises I have made in this yajna worthwhile. You may come to us praises by means of protection, so that we may gain food, strength, and long life. 
O powerful friend! The sun that heaven produces is different from you. Hey Varun! You are the king of all of you. The upper part of your chariot is coming here. This yajna is going to destroy the demons. Sin cannot touch it. 
Let us quickly achieve the work that produces food. All the visible beings reside in the midst of the god who produces food through rain. May god, who knows the meaning of the heart of all beings, inspire me to donate money to my man who does not donate and make our wealth rich with sons, grandsons, etc. (8)
We make these pleasant praises for the horse-clad Indra named Hari and ask for the divine force from Indra. We will overcome all sorrows and gain strength. O Shur Indra! Enable us to be hostile forever. Let us get food very safely. 
O son of strength, agni! You are the one who destroys the complementary brilliant and devious demons every day. We do your attention. 
This is a dream! You are the death that ends life. (9)
We yagyaras today serve savita dev, the representative of all gods, the guardian of gentlemen and the ruler of truth. 
He reaches the heaven which is located in space and who makes pua and gives it to the shatodana cow. (5)
Savita Dev, the leader of all, rises high by taking shelter of a godless and pro-people flame. They are born for the devakamas i.e. the yagnas. Usha has invented all the folk by becoming the eye of all the gods. 
Unruly people should be appointed for heinous acts. Goldsmiths for good character, banias for weighing should be appointed. Later, the angry person should appoint a person who is perfect for all beings to blame. The awakening for prosperity, the visionary for unsolved growth, the one who warns him to get rid of pain, the one who is without pride for progress, the goal seeker should be appointed to hit the arrow. (17)
O agni! Subdue all your enemies and establish their strength and wealth in us. (46)
O squeezed Mon! Drink your juice to gain wisdom and strength. Let all the gods drink your juice. 
Oh, Usha! Wake up today for our great happiness and give us great fortune. O human-helper Ushadevi! Give us riches, and give us a son with food to human beings. 
Who greets Indra, the character of the host Somras, with a word of praise? Who wishes to praise Indra? Who keeps the cows given by Indra? Who wants Indra's help? Is Keen willing to have friendship or brotherhood with Indra? Who prays for protection from the revolutionary Indra? 
O Indra! Havya's pak has been done. You come to us. The sun has reached the middle of its path. Just as the protector sons of the dynasty roam around to protect the householder, so many sakhas worship you with the contents of the yajna. 
O aschinikumaro! You come from east, west, north and south. You come from all sides with five-character interest-making assets. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of well-being. 
The base of the goat hymns attached in the chariot should be brought here wearing Pusha in the chariot. 
 Soma runs 
Those with very pure deeds, pure geniuses, holy and those who finish the yagna work are adorned when they call agni. 
O Indra! This king should be the best wealthy among the rich and the best of the species. Put great radiance and semen in this king and make the enemies of this king bright. (3)
These kirana-rupi mons play with stones on top of cow's leather. Indra called Som for the sake of the item. 
O friend of special knowledge and Varuna! Aditi is your mother. Fill the earth and the sky with water. You give dear things in the people below and sanctify the whole world by the rays of the sun. 
At the same time that the glowing water comes in the yagnapatra called The Chamas, at the same time, the eyes of the gods living above fall on the yajnapatra chamas, as wide as the sun's rays. Just as many brides want to marry the same girl, so the devas desire this sompurna and dev-loving character kept in the north direction of the altar. 
O agni! Protect us from the unspoken people by giving us great money and save us from the enemy. 
This anjan, which destroys demons and destroys diseases, is famous for destroying all diseases and defeating all diseases. (7)
O teacher! Sit nearby, full of desire, close to, relative and brotherly put havi in the mouth of the agni. 
O agni! You have a simple, only cow compatible with the sun and giving nectar. You are ignited by the Sumitravanshis, who wish for the gods, the South-yukta and the chief yajnakar. 
Hey Mon! Today, we choose your comforter, the bearer of wealth, the protector from enemies and the force desired by many. 
O pure, sanctifying and rending agni! You are called by disgust and are being highly illuminated. 
Please allow the fall of the vishva and marudgan plow. Please clean it with honey. You be energetic. You irrigate the directions with milk and water us with ghee and milk. (70)
Indra Dev is young, our friend, great and enemy. They are highly acclaimed and powerful. (24)
O agni! You protect the host. You are illuminated around by staying near the yajna to free the yajna from the obstacle of the demons. You do not do violence, but nurture. The praise-giver who gives you the substance, you sincerely want his praise. 
When Purukuts, the son of Durgah, was imprisoned, the Saptarishis became the followers of this kingdom of ours. He had found The Trasadsyu by performing a yagna for the welfare of Purukuts' wife. He was as much a destroyer and half-god as Indra. 
O Indra! You have illuminated the sun in the sky. You are the one who despises enemies, the Vishwai Dev and the great Vishwakarma. (6)
These are the same agnis that desire and do desire the yajna of the gods. They are installed for yajna. Like a agni chariot, the havankaras, surrounded by ritwijs, hosts, etc., are full of rays and are going to complete the yajna themselves. 
 Somerus is holy and green. He flows for mighty children and hosts who want to achieve success. 
The hosts whose waves of somras fall towards the friends, Varuna and Bhagadeva, meet the pleasures of knowing Soma. 
This Sun has been called Sanatan. He is still new again today. Day and night which are different from each other appeared from the same Paramatma. (23)
Demons should eat their son, sister and grandson. Demons should pull each other's hair and fight and get death. Demons who do not donate should fight among themselves and die. (4)
No one can limit indra's golden glow, the creator of the whole world. Indra, the refuge of this praise, is pleased with this adornment and embraces the earth-sky that satisfies everyone in such a way that the mother puts her child with her chest. 
 O agni! You are the guide of human beings, the one who walks forward, as fast and young as a chariot. No one can press you. 
O Indra! Your urn is filled with mon. The word 'Swaha' has also been pronounced for your somras to drink. Just as the water filling water pours water from the filled container to another vessel, so I fill the pot with som for you to drink. The delicious Som circumambulation goes before them for Indra's delight. 
When he sees the guests, he calls them, greets them, presents water and praises them. (8)
We ask for that best money with the permission of host Savita Dev. May the earth and the sky be blessed with kindness to us in the form of a house and hundreds of cows. 
O furious Indra! Be pleased to suit your desire. May these mons be received by you, may our praises be received by Indra, called by many. O Indra! May this praise compel you to protect us. 
I destroy all male worms and female worms with stone and destroy their mouths with agni. (13)
 O agni! You give us a lot of strength and money. You are unhindered. Show us the path of money. Show us the path of food and strength. 
O God of water! With your help, the devabhilashi elders prepared indra's drinkable, the somras that originated from the earth, at this time we will also consume the same pure, sinless, rain-fed and sweet somras of yours. 
O Indra of Safa! May your hundreds of defenses and thousands of wishes and wealth belong to me. You must destroy the weapon of a violent man and give us glorious glory and gems. 
O God! Come, listen to my call and sit on these cushions. 
We also provide the food that is enjoyable by the wise from the sun, which is the worshiper of sage scholars named Ksat, Manas, Avad, Yajat, Sadhri and Avtasar and the full sun of all. 
O melon! You have been cremated by the Ahutis and called for bondage, with which they used to bond the enemies. You are the one who precedes the action started and destroys the heroes of the enemies. (2)
For those who go to the battle, Indra goes at a ejaculatory motion and is situated in the battle with the desire to distribute the wealth of the enemies among his devotees. In the war, indra, who is stable, knows the money located in the city of hundred gates of the enemy and brings it with his strength and defeats the senseless demons. 
The wombs that are dropped, the turmoil in the world, the mutual beating of the heroes, all these actions are done by the wife of the Brahmin. (7)
The bright indra struck Vrithra, Arnabha and Ahishuv and pierced the cloud with the ushy waters. 
We are offering these adorable hymns to the invigorated Jatadhari and the heroic Rudra so that there is a pathological peace of the dwida and the quadrupada. Everyone in the village should be strong and uncaring. 
O God! You have given birth to Sabarita Dev and other gods. Ashwini Dev receives havi from Bahu. Pusha Dev takes havi with hands. Adhwaryu (priest) receives the beloved havi of agni (to offer). Priests take only the substance they like to offer to Agni and Soma. (10)
O fruitful and bright agni to the yagyakars! Dripping drops of ghee are for you. O sage and the best agni! You are ignited. You become the yagyapalaka. 
We eight best meritorious people 
Human beings make the same Indra masters through powerful hymns and yagnakarmas. Indra is the one who gives money to the stoetas. 
O Maruto! Be situated among all of you people in many ways and desire to destroy the demons. You powder the captured demons well. Destroy the demons who roam around at night as birds or who do violence in god-related sacrifices. (18)
O brave and visible Indra! As soon as you are born, you defeat the people of the dasa jati with the help of the sun. You also defeat the hidden in the cavity and immersed in the water. We will present somras when it rains. 
O Lord of horses named Hari and Indra with a gentle chin! You, with all kinds of defense tools, take the maruts and commit more violence against the enemies, and give us a son of desire and mighty, listen to the praises and come to us. 
I am the one who controls the visible world, who gives wealth to the worshipers as a fruit, who interviews the Supreme Brahman and is the worthy god of yajna. The god who gives fruits to the worshipers determines me, who is located in prapanchas from many parts, in many means. (2)
Those who have the reins of horses in their hands make a loud noise. Horses go with chariots. They should trample the enemies with their feet. Horses destroy enemies. (44)
O Raka i.e. Purnima Devi! Your beautiful welfare intellects, through which you give wealth to the host who gives happiness, today you come to us with the same welfare intellects and graceful minds.
In a world where men with a good heart and those who do good deeds are happy and their bodies are strengthened by giving up diseases like fever, if the cow giving birth to twins comes forward, then it should not do violence to our humans and animals. (5)
The cows that were locked in the cave, Indra took them out for the sages of the Angira gotra. The force that abducted cows was a monster. Indra lowered his mouth and dropped him. (3)
O Indra! Listen to our call, make your strength unbearable to our enemies and be our most brothers. 
The river called Shwethyavari, which flows the most in the rivers and has a golden path, approaches you with praise. 
O Indra! We call you before us for acts like showing force like breach of mass and insulting enemy armies. (1)
May Satyapala dev be the cause of peace for us. Give us peace of horses and cows. May the lord of the hands and the hands give us peace. Give us peace when praises are spoken. 
When all the gates of the body are illumined by knowledge, know it to be a manifestation of the mode of goodness. When the mode of passion predominates, O Arjun, the symptoms of greed, exertion for worldly gain, restlessness, and craving develop. O Arjun, nescience, inertia, negligence, and delusion—these are the dominant signs of the mode of ignorance.
Purified with the help of Dashapavitra, meritorious, mixed with curd, walked in water and look like the sun in the still som pots. 
We become holders by yajna. Increase the ability to patience. May we get all the greatness of the world by yajna. May we get full strength from yajna. We get knowledge through yajna. Yajna should increase the capacity of production. Yajna should increase the capacity of farming means. Yajna reduces sufferings. May the yajna be fruitful in all. (7)
Oh, God! Let not our former men present in heaven degenerate from there. Sompan should never be devoid of a son for the sake of the happiness of a worthy father. O earth and sky! Understand this point of mine. 
The learned and sacrificial devas created the vaishvanar agni in the form of a slightly unblemished sun. The agni made the ancient, rotating, wide and great constellations bright before the gods. 
 O Indra! You are willing to drink Britrahanta and Someras. Please come to our yagna with your horses. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra! You are like armor our protector, famous everywhere and the one who fights ahead of us. I will destroy the enemies with your help. 
The vajra that proved Indra's work had fallen on the enemies. Indra had torn down the cities of Vritra with sharp and superior thunderbolt ordnance. After this, Indra drove his thunderbolt on the vritra and killed him and boosted his enthusiasm well. 
 O Indra! We are worshippers of you. We want to cross bhav sagar. We also want to get the strength of intelligence 
O Indra! Come. We give you encouraging praises. O very powerful Indra! By listening to these praises, you desire to do good to the food-seekers. Indra's donation is welfare-doering. 
Sixty-six thousand sixty-six thousand of Anu and Y who wished for cows were killed because of Sudas, who wanted to serve the heroic soldier Indra. All these acts are of Indra's heroism. 
We choose the godly, omniscient and infinite agni in this yajna. He should perform the yajna related to God for our welfare and accept our vow to give money and food. 
Indra, the representative of the good things and who is ahead in the war, knows all the good things, he has killed the Shushna Asura. Our most meritorious and willing friend of cows, Indra, should come from heaven and save us from sins. 
Hey Mon! The yajna related to Varuna, the king of the Brahmins, belongs to you, so your brightness is wide and serious. You are the reformer of all like Varun and the one who grows like Aryama. 
I uproot both the highly obstructive lips of the enemy who cause distress in all respects, which distress me while speaking together. I also bind the reproductive organ of the enemy who has stolen our wealth from this place to the man or woman who hates us. (3)
The character of the yajna should come to the yagna from goddess Saraswati Duloka or from a vast space. He who showers the belly should gladly listen to our praise and know its meaning. 
When the Devas returned after killing the enemies, their immortality was protected. 
The kings and ministers of worms have been destroyed by the power of our mantras and medicines. The entire family of worms, including mothers, brothers and sisters, has been destroyed. (11)
O agni! The husbandly host you follow cannot be separated from you by the rich and the unsung of charity. 
Fire always accepts the truth, the fruit-giver and the one who possesses all of them. Fires are non-barrier-prone, home-executing and power-giver. They are seated on the kushas, rain-fed, nestled, infantile, young and uninhibited. 
 Someras is green and beautiful. It is filtered with a sieve made of sheep's hair. It has enjoyable qualities. It goes to Indra and other gods with these qualities. 
The lines formed by ploughing in the field are the rib bones of this odan and the sand of the rivers are half-ripe straws inside its stomach. (12)
 O Indra! You can be reached with intelligence. You are called Brahmins. Please come to the yajna to listen to the Brahmavachans. 
One who knows the puri of Brahman i.e. the place of residence and is called Brahma Purush because of sleeping in it, who knows him, eyes and soul do not give up him till old age. (30)
O agni! Just as you cross the river by boat, so follow us by taking us to a land without enemies for our welfare. Let our sins be destroyed. 
This stotao! Praise the wind who add horses to the chariot, Indra and Pusha who do many deeds and make them accept your friendship. They perform the yajna of Savita Dev in the morning with equal intellect and knowledge. 
 O Indra! O agni! You give us strong food and fast horses so that we can progress. 
The agni with which all the yagnas go on and the havan that gives fame to the host who receives it. He calls the gods for the yagna of the host who gives the havya material and uproots the Kush. 
O agni hidden in the cave and located among the forest trees! You were received by the Angiragotrian sages. O agni related to the sages of Angira! You arise from churning arnani by more power, so everyone calls you shaktiputra. 
The senses are superior to the gross body, and superior to the senses is the mind. Beyond the mind is the intellect, and even beyond the intellect is the soul.
Hey Anjan! You are going to give you a hundred years of age. You are called a pleasing medicine, so O Anjan! You are called the form of happiness. O water- May you and the water god give me happiness and protection. (1)
Prajapati had obtained the fruit through the scandal that appeared. I have also received that excellent scandal. Irrigate it with ghee. This disgusting part belongs to us sages of the Angira gotra. (45)
Dedicate your every activity to me, making me your supreme goal. Taking shelter of the Yog of the intellect, keep your consciousness absorbed in me always.
O Lord, in the yagna, she is a stream of water! You protect the earth. This is proof! You prepare somers by crushing, squeezing them with stones. Both your ears are made of gold. Please listen to our praise from them. (71)
O Indra! You attack the weapons of the enemies through the thunderbolt, the means of your attack. You destroy the heroes who live in the cities of enemies through your deserts etc. heroes. You killed the elusive namuchi, so we praise you. (7)
 O Mon! You are encouraging and agile. You enter this kalash for Indra to drink. You make us light and knowledgeable. 
Just as the carpenter builds the chariot, so we dedicate this praise of the godly and the one who knows all beings in a wise manner. By the service of this agni, our intellect becomes welfare. O agni! If we have gained your friendship, we will not receive violence. 
O Indra! Bring our cows stopped by enemies. This dundubhi is ringing again and again to make everyone aware. Our soldiers are walking around on horses. O Indra! Let the soldiers sitting on our chariots be happy. 
O god willing to protect! Rescue us. Don't trap enemies who commit violence. 
O patient! Give up fear, for you will not die. I enable you to live in this world till your old age. Tuberculosis and bone fever have been removed from your body. (8)
We offer our praises to the sacrificial gods. Let the agni spread in our yagna without resisting our desires. Oh, God! You do not neglect and give us money to be consumed forever. We will meet our assistant gods today. 
We give this havi to Jupiter Dev, who breaks the cloud and provides water. Jupiter dev has praised our wishes. May they give us food including cows, horses, sons and servants. (12)
O Indra! At the time when you kill the enemy, your glory is not contained in both the earth and in the sky. you give Rain water from the sky and cows for us. 
Indra, the wealthowner, sleeps in every human being. The wishful Indra pays attention to the praises of human beings. The one in whose sacrifices The Shakra performs Raman, he defeats the enemies by drinking the intoxicating Someras. 
O Indra! I add horses to your chariot through karmavan mantras. O learned Indra! By climbing this soothing chariot, you come to this Somers of ours. (1)
The one who knows all, the bright and the master of Sakal Bhuvan, soothes Som. Som goes from both sides to dashapavitra made of sheep's hair while inducing his juice in the yagnas. 
Very young people, who are ignited in their homes, in the middle of the wide-ranging light-earth, with strange flames, well-called and near the moving agni everywhere, we walk with salutations. 
The deserts, the sons of the earth, milk the place of this yajna, the beloved of Indra, etc., the means of home and Manohar Som. 
O agni! I had received the chariot from Sudas, the grandson of King Devvan and son of Pijvan, by praising Indra. I go to the yajnashala like I would. 
We are (going) making efforts near the yagna. We are chanting mantras for agni. May they be pleased to come near us and listen to the mantras. (11)
O Indra and Agni! I especially call you to do your havan, to please you by havan and to get food. You are going to give food and money. 
 Soma is divine and admired by Brahmins. They are found in water. Som holds money for the hosts. 
 The sky and the earth manifest the capable and radiant Indra with their power. Indra is unique. 
O Lord Indra! You want a harmony like Som. You squeeze somerus. You wear somers. Som provides somras even while enduring the harsh behavior of human beings. Food is forced. (18)
 O hosts! Indra is the operator of yajna. They are willing to drink somerous. They reach all places on time. They are partners in the appropriate location. First of all, they are distinguished on the altar of yajna. They wish to go to the sacrifice of human beings. Please all of you to satisfy the same Indra with Someras. 
O Indra! We have a prepared somers. We are your servants and have done somayag. You drink somers, so we are invoking you. (3)
Brahmins have received this Dhenu from Yama, composed by penance and dependent on Parabrahma. (1)
Those who know the place of fire on the earth, who are familiar with the origin of the air from space by the gods, or who understand that the sun has a place on it, they find the position without death. 
O agni! You are strong. You jump in the chariot and become as fast as the wind. Please beautify the southern part of Indra Dev. Please plough you in the desert chariot. God of God! You have strength in your feet. (8)
The woman of Indra's son Vasuk says, "All the gods except Indra have come to our yagna. My father-in-law Indra did not come, it's surprising. When they come, they eat roasted barley sattu and drink somras. They would go home again with respect." 
O Lord Mon! Just as cows lick the born calves, in the same way, the devotees lick you in the yagya without treason and water green like mothers. 
O agni! This pain should not kill the elder brother among these fathers, mothers, brothers etc. You should also protect it because of the defect of rooting out, that is, marrying the elder brother. O agni! You know how to get rid of it, so get rid of the bondage of the vampire that holds it. Allow all gods you to get rid of the bondage of this. (1)
O Indra, who is not defeated by the enemies! Protect us in such great wars with your indomitable protective power which will give the benefit of thousands of elephants, horses, etc. 
For those who are alive, those who have died, those who have been born and who are going to be born in the future, may you get a small river with a rising stream. (57)
I serve through new praises the same ruchir, the many-doer and the ancient Ashvinikumaras, who are the givers of happiness and many kinds of donations to the one who invents and speaks praise. 
Oh, this maghwa! The wife is home and the same is the man's vagina. Let a horse named Hari take you to the same wife's house. Whenever we squeeze the somras, let your angel agni come before you. 
O Indra! You have made the earth rich, fulfilling the desire of all and giving the desired fruits to the turviti and the elderly kings with water and grain. You made the water so that it could be easily crossed. 
The host invites Vayu and Pusha Dev in Ushakal for their welfare. The hosts offer kush asanas to these gods. These gods come like a king from Thatbat. (44)
The sun dries up the water. Praise that sun for your protection. We want to perform yajna for the sun. 
Indra, the lord of wealth, the one who defeats others, the brave and the one with more wealth, is the most beloved for bravery. O Indra, who has done a lot! Wear thunderbolts on both your lustful arms. 
The hakth and all the admirable averaging towards Indra are adorned in the same way that the waves of water adorn the ocean. 
O agni! You are the ones who call the gods, the host, the guardians and the joyful ones of the people. You are the messenger of the gods. Earth etc. deities who do steady deeds, they get into you. 
O Indra! Your said kind of work is also praiseworthy at this time as before. You showered water for the sages of Angira and rescued the cows stolen by the asuras and gave it to them. Just like these sages, fight for our wealth and be victorious. For the welfare of us who squeeze the Somras, you defeat the enemies of the anti-yajna. The anti-sacrificial ones who show anger lose in front of you. 
O Indra! Your worshipper is as strong as a chariot walking, receiving strength from you. (3)
At the time of yajna, the Somras should go to the water for the sake of the gods as soon as the mind moves fast. O adhwaryujano! Purify the great mon for friend and wide speed Indra. 
This is the abode of Rohini and Rohit, Prishati travels through this route. Gandharva takes him upstairs. Clever people carefully protect it. (23)
His hair is not pulled by the messenger of death and demons, vampires, etc. do not do violence by hurting the heart, which the user gives pleasure to the gem made of uncut leaves. (2)
O men desirous of victory, force, etc.! I tie this precious gem in your hand to give you long life and speed. This gem is the one who commits violence of the enemies and is anguishing the heart of the enemies. (1)
O aschinikumaro, the best of the protectors and enemies of many! May the empty praises and hymns increase you! You be worthy of wanting for us in many ways. 
He who knows this attains the perfection of the rearing of servants, children, and animals. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! It is so famous that your chariot with three places of sarathi and with gold reins shines with its light on the dyava-prithvivi. You come to us by the same chariot. 
O Indra and Agni! The recipients of Somras are present around this karma of ours by looking at the path of Adi Yajna. 
Mahabali Yamdoot, who attained fulfillment from the lives of large-nosed creatures and abducted the lives, roams everywhere. These two messengers should restore the five-sense prana in our body for the sake of sun sighting. (13)
 O Indra! You give abundant money. That's what we know. Please give us a lot of money. 
O Indra! The asuras who used to put sacrificial material in their mouths adorned with the food grains, you defeated those Mayavis by maya. O Indra, who has mercy on hosts! You demolished the abodes of Pipru Asura. You fully protected the ristian in the hands of the bandits to kill. 
The river named Ashmanvati is flowing. Get up to cross this river to come to the yagna and cross it. O friends, God! Let us leave the unsung and cross the river and find the grains happily. 
Just as birds sit on trees, so so do soma Indra, who gives happiness, takes shelter. The face of these somas is brightly lit. These Somas have given light to humans in the form of sun to get light. (4)
May Aryama, Pusha and Jupiter bind you well. We bind you with the name of the one who is born in the day. (12)
Indra said, "O deserters! I had struck Vritra with my own personal force out of anger, I hold the thunderbolt in my hand, so I rain for the happiness of all men." 
The constant dynamic and great Aditya is as shadeless as a tree without leaves. Those who make people by rain, unfazed and like the womb of the three lokas, aditya eats havya. The jhuloka-shaped cow nourishes Aditi's son by licking him with love. The dyourupini cow holds Aditya like its trunks. 
The devas who saw the leaders of the yagnakarma without dropping an eyelid had obtained elaborate nectar to protect the folk. The bright charioteers, those with non-disturbance yagnakarmas and sinless devas live in the advanced region of heaven for the welfare of the people. 
By accepting Havi, Indra becomes powerful and gets a yagnik name. (3)
O your way! You get the name Vibhindi by having hundreds of branches. The one who produces you is called Vibhind. The enemy who wants to destroy us, be your opponent and destroy him. (5)
O Indra Dev! You take us towards excellence. You subdue our decorators. You make us equal dominated and able to give the gods their share. (51)
 O Indra! O agni! You are undefeated by enemies, journey by chariot and destroyer of the wicked. Please pay attention to our praises. 
These somas, which are praised and cursed by many, flow through humans being purified. 
Hey Mon! Just as a virgo calls her man, in the same way, ten fingers saying the word tease you to give us money. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as you were called to his yagyashala by the sages of Kshavivan, the man and the long-term sages, and Prithu, the son of King Ven, so too am I praising you. You know it. 
O agni! You are prominent in the yajna. You are huge, stunning, poet and know the past and the future. We ignite you with samidha. (4)
O Indra! The sages who praise you or those who do not praise you, in both these types of sages, my praise grows. 
Great, for the benefit of the many, the best, the strong, the water year and jupiter is praised in this form. May they hear our praises and give us various fruits, and may we have food, strength and long life. 
O Indra revered because of the properties! May your gracious wisdom be no different from us. Oh, it's a maghwan! You are the master of wealth, get us a cow. Rejoice with the sons and grandsons who have grown from your great praises. 
The Supreme Being is present in heaven and earth. It pervades people and directions. He is ingrained in himself. Knowing the fiber of the spread truth, the wise become unconscious and see, as they were before. (12)
O enemy-destroying Mon! You contain milk, food and semen. You hold the excellent grain in heaven growing up for our immortality. 
O host! By serving odan, you have subdued this world. May you get these odans of heaven more than his influence. O husband and wife! May this beautifully glorified and ly moving odan bring you to heaven. May the gods bring this host closer to the gods. (38)
O jataved agni! We give you the same kind of food to the horse living in our house every day, just as we feed grass etc. from time to time to the horse living in our house. O agni! May we, your servants, never perish, pleased with the prosperity of wealth and food. (8)
O God of Agni! Let us dominate wars. Let us make our body powerful by revealing you. May the four directions and directions prevail in front of us and this army of enemies under your protection. (1)
Wen are water-holding people and live in the high place of heaven and wear a strange armament around them. They shine in their beautiful form like the sun and produce water to suit everyone. 
Savita Dev holds a golden abhri (means of digging soil) in her hand. Like Angira Rishi, agni is installed on the yagna altar. Please nourish him well with the mantra recited in the anushtupa verse. (11)
O You born of adornment, Maruto! Your importance and charity are as unsavoury as Aditi's fast. Indra also does not deviate towards the virtuous host for which you give the favoured wealth. 
O Anjan! The man who possesses you does not have the sin received by another, and even a demon named Kriya, born out of the conduct done by other people, does not reach him. You should not receive the sorrow caused by the act and the obstacles should not reach him. (5)
O Indra! You have made a path for turvity and age to easily reach across the flowing water and attained fame by saving the present blind-crippled paravrija in the water and in the bottom. 
O Sahartu Indra! Drink the most powerful, successful and awakening Somras to protect us. 
You are not tastuva, you are not tastuva. You are definitely not a tashuva. Tastuva makes the poison ineffective. (11)
O sun! Salutations to you while rising and salutations to you while rising up after rise. O sun of the great form! Hello to you! Salutations to you who are self-published. Salutations to you who are highly illuminated. (22)
This pregnant woman! At the time of your birth, your mother should not want you to be scented with skin defects in the two vows called Durnam and Sunam, which were received by your husband, that is, you should not get it and you should not have diseases called Alish and Vatsap. (1)
Indra, the lover of Somras, the one who showers his desires, defeats enemies, is endowed with defeating enemies, the swami of all gods, destroys the vritra asuras and drinks Somras by rules, joins the horses of his Hari name in the chariot and joins our yajna and be happy by performing sompan in the yajna on this medium day. (7)
O Maruto! We admire the speed and brightness of your new chariots. The rain follows the maruts. 
Hey Aditya! May the powerful who hate us not find happiness on this earth. May your happiness be given to the cow, the new bride, the bride, the son of Adhanu and Shobhan, who desires food. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
The goiter, which is more painful than the symptoms of excessive yellow dripping and obstructing disease, should be flowing from all sides. This means that the gandmalas are eliminated by the use of mantras and medicines. Gandmalas should be more dull than cotton and more wet than salt. (1)
Just as fame is established in the earth and agni, this gem made of the varan tree gives me fame and opulence in the same way. (19)
Enemies whose violence is unable to do remain in the battlefield. Just as the husband goes to the wife, in the same way Indra will listen to our call and come to this yagna. (3)
 O Indra! Your sons 
Charioteer adds horses named Hari or green color to Indra's chariot. Horses living on both sides of Indra's chariot are rides that are wished for. Those horses subdue everyone. (10)
Vajradhari Indra, who killed the raining cloud with a thunderbolt, killed the Shushna Asura. He was happy to eat the food of the asura creatures, was the protector of the raining cloud and was moving towards the darkness of tamoguna. 
Hey Mon! You have made all the present-day herbs, rainwater and cows on earth. You have spread out the vast sky and have removed its darkness by light. 
O Indra! You are like a horse to the people of the city and make wealth unlimited. You are the one who grows cows and gives full and desired donations of gold. Give me the things I have come to your shelter to get. (2)
We call Indra by ancient hymns including the maruts to drink this soma. 
Balas disease is destroyed and urinary disease is eliminated. The poison of all diseases is tuberculosis, I remove it from you. (10)
O God of Agni! Call the fruits we receive in front of us dear and come in front of us and be happy. O agni of the people in a global way! Give us the money we need, because you are our giver. (2)
O working agni! You increase our desired fruits and give us food. Oh, God! Together with you gods illuminated by the rays of adornment, make the earth and the sky fruitful for us. Let the defeat of the enemies not come near us. 
O gods of hurry! Only those suffering from the rules of penance etc. get the money you have given. The host you get gets more money. 
The intellect is said to be in the nature of goodness, O Parth, when it understands what is proper action and what is improper action, what is duty and what is non-duty, what is to be feared and what is not to be feared, what is binding and what is liberating.
 O people who express! Please give us information as to what rudra is related to his horses with marudaganas living in the same house. 
O Ashwini Kumar! The stots went to the sons of Ajmeedh with praise. Give this psalm money in both the worlds along with the sons and grandsons born out of his semen. (6)
Auras son does not give money to his sister, he gives her the right to conceive only husband by marrying her. If the parents produce both a son and a daughter, then the son of these does the best of pinddaan and the girl gets respect only from the garment. 
Hitherto, I have explained to you Sānkhya Yog, or analytic knowledge regarding the nature of the soul. Now listen, O Parth, as I reveal Buddhi Yog, or the Yog of Intellect. When you work with such understanding, you will be freed from the bondage of karma.
O Ashwinikumaro! You are inspired by the inspirations of your force-bouncing and fast-moving Ashwago and Indradi Devas. Your vehicle was victorious thousands of times in the multi-powerful battles that pleased Rasabh Indra. 
O self- We know your birth. You are the son of Nirtrati i.e. sin god and the instrument of Yama Dev. You are the end-of-life death. We know this form of yours. You save us from bad self-respect. (4)
O glorious, lord of all, those who carry the havi to the gods, the ignited, the agni which is terrible for the enemies and the agni in the vegetation! People see you for the wealth of hosts. The agnis that know everyone especially carry the glow and spread the brightness of the white color through their great brightness. 
 Agni ignites for Indra. She is particularly adorned with shining in paradise. She looks like the Queen. 
The truthful and revolutionary Angiragotrian sages, seeing the maya of the demons, again reached the main path with the desire to come there. They threw the agni ignited by their hands on the mountain. Before that they were not there agni. 
 O Mon! You drink your divine juice marut, indra aryama, bhaga etc. Just like you call friend and Varun for safety, we call Indra. 
The earth trembles with the fear of the maruts, just as a boat full of riders moves. Deserts are known to be due to their speed even when they appear far away. The leader strives to get more happiness by staying in the middle of the earth and the sky. 
The soul without death lives with the mortal body and attains degradation and vertical motion due to the inner enjoyments. They are always together and go together everywhere in the world. People know of these the eternal body, not the eternal soul. 
 O Indra! May our army defeat the Shajurus in wars. Our enemies should come before us with their mouths down. You put those enemies in the pit of decline, who want to subdue us. 
O Aj! I am taking you to the host for Indra's part in this yajna. Set your feet on those who are our peace, and make the host's sons, etc., sinless. (2)
May the sages who compose the ten verses get this sacrifice well. (7)
He who knows this, his sacrifice becomes the best sacrifice when given to the gods. (14)
O Indra! The sound of the arrival of terrible, black and moving maruts is heard. Just as the poor take away the enemy's wealth by inflicting pain on him, so the deserters bring down their enemy Cloud with their protective measures. 
 No one can dandy the host who is protected by Varuna, Mitra and Aryama Devta with superior knowledge. 
May all our families who are not happy with us and who want to kill us by staying away. Mantras are the only armor that protects us. 
What is the distance between desert and forest? O Vrisakapi! You come to the nearby house and come to the yajnashala. Indra is the best. 
O night of wealth! Sixty-six and fifty-five who are gana gods, O night of happiness! Forty-four who are gana deities, O night of food! Thirty-three gana deities expand your glory. (4)
O hosts! Ask those fires. They go everywhere, so they know. They are the same consciousness ones. They only go quickly to learn the only thing worth knowing. Agni has the ability to administer and they have the capacity for sarvaphalasadhak yajna. They are the keepers of food, force and strength. 
O Indra! Just as the mother follows the son, so the dyava-prithvivi follows your enemy-destroying force. O Indra! When you kill Vrittar, all armies are shattered when you see your anger. 
May the sages who compose the seven thrichas get this sacrifice well. (4)
O Jupiter God! You travel around by chariot. You are the destroyer of demons and remove the obstacles of friends. Please protect our chariots while winning the war against those who destroy in wars. (36)
Those who follow the grains and give the bright agni cover the havyas from all sides, giving delightful money to the host. 
Hey, Lord! This yajna has been aimed at you. Be radiant and hold it in your stomach like men. Somers who serve you lives near you. Hey, Lord! You are all counted in the forefront. 
Saraswati Devi, Tvashta Dev and Ashwinikumars presented a chariot worth praising Indra Dev. These gods established semen in Indra Dev. Ashwinikumars established the vision in the eyes of Indra Dev. Indra Dev is rich. Hold money for us. Those interested in money should please perform a welfare yagna for him. (55)
O God! Let's get rich when we get the middle of this time and the day. O rich god! We receive the grace of the gods at sunrise. 
O Mon! You are going to give opinion fruit. O Soma, being purified! We, the people of shobhan karma, invite you in our sacrifices. 
Dev, Pitar, Man, Gandharva, Apsaras, Gods located in heaven and heaven - all these sacrifices originated from Brahman in the form of the rest. (27)
O the deserters! Kush has been laid out for you who want to pray. Just as the Father holds the Son on his hands, will you also hold us in the same way? 
Tvashta Dev gave birth to a brave child who loved the gods. Tvashta Dev created the whole world. Tvashta Dev is the doer of the multi-form world. Please do the yajna. (9)
O Indra! Drink this somras bought in exchange for your cow and prepared with the help of water. 
O God! Our cows should not be destroyed, tigers, etc., do not kill them, nor should they fall into the well. You come with safe cows. 
Those who are happy within themselves, enjoying the delight of God within, and are illumined by the inner light, such yogis are united with the Lord and are liberated from material existence.
O patient man! The sun that remains true liberates you from the planet of darkness. Indra Adi Dev frees you from sin. Similarly, I redeem you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god who is the cause of disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the enemy of the guru, dev etc., from the sin of Varun Dev. I make you sinless through my mantra. May both the world and the earth be benefactors to you. (8)
O Indra! The same somras, which you are pleased with because of the food in the form of somersa, you hold excessive force, the same somras has been squeezed for you. Drink it to you. 
This is the hymn! Praise indra's former deeds worthy of praise and hastening for war. Indra goes in front of them repeatedly throwing weapons for the sake of enemy attack in battle. 
O Indra! You rejoice in the place of the nectar dripping place of paradise, the sacrificial place of the earth, or in the space that gives food. 
O sun! When the asura named Swarbhanu covered you with the darkness created by Maya, all the places became dark. The residents there were still and could not even know their place. 
O Indra and Varuna! You speak in our favor in a war in which men meet to fight by raising flags, in which nothing is beloved, and in which beings see heaven. 
O Indra! Adorning you with praise and strength, I praise you with all my heart for receiving food. O Indra! You are going to walk before human and divine people. 
At the time when the earthly agni and the air dispute amongst us as to who among the leaders of the yajnakarma knows the yajna better, at that time the friends perform the ritwij yajna. They can't decide who's right. 
O God of water! Just as you remove our stool, etc., remove the jealousy, lies, defects, etc. of the host. May water and air absolve us of these sins. May water please make us holy. (17)
O Indra, the ruler of Soma! Drink this som prepared in the median-savan. It's delightful. O Maghvan and Sage Indra! Open the two horses added to the chariot and fill their jaws with the grasses here and please them in that yagna. 
Earth is our mother and Devmata Aditi is the reason for our birth. Space is our brother. It saves me from the sin of false speech. Akash is our father. He saved us from the defects from the father and made us happy. I should not attain discharge from heaven by giving up my life in vain and not performing yajna etc. (2)
 O Mon! You are holy and beneficial to human beings. You are worn by the host 
I wear new clothes. I wake up in the usha period like living beings, who wear the fragrance and wear the best clothes. Just as a bird comes out of an egg, so may I also be free from all sins. (44)
Someone has seen in a nearby or distant place that they place above what they plough in the chariots. It is not given water and grass. It holds the axle and makes the master victorious. 
 Somerus is green. It is crushed with stones and squeezed. It is squeezed with the fingers of three sages for Indra to drink. 
Margashirsha and Paush hemant are part of the season. Both these months of Sawan and Bhadon are related to the rainy season. You are connected within the agni. May heaven come to fruition for us. May the earth come to fruition for us. May water come to fruition for us. Let the medicines come to fruition for us. O god! You are bright, holy, like summer and connected within agni. You can extend to heaven. Please imagine you to the land of earth. The medicines should come to fruition. Let water and agni come to fruition. Please inspire the agnis, including the Brat, to jyeshtha (nobility). The agnis that are within us with the same mind, please grace the heaven and the earth. While bringing the summer season to fruition from both sides, be adorned in the gods like Indra Dev. Please sit still like an angira with your divinity. (27)
We measure this cremation ground in a special way, so that we do not get another cremation work in the middle before a hundred years. (41)
Durva, who destroys sin, created by gods and removes sin, washes away all sins from me in such a way that water washes away scum. (1)
O patient! I remove tuberculosis from your heart. I destroy your tuberculosis from the kalom located near the heart, from the halikhya, from the gall bladder, from the side, from the spleen, from the liver and also from your stomach. (19)
Hota performed yajna for the door of directions. The learned host performed yagna for Ashwinikumaras, Indra Dev and Goddess Saraswati. Heaven and earth were medicines for the gods. Speech was cowed. He provided divine radiance and divine strength for all the gods. In the yajna, honey, ghee and milk etc. are dripping for the gods. May the gods please accept them and perform yagya for the welfare of the host all. (34)
Indra Dev is a samidhavan. First of all, let's illuminate the east direction in the Usha period. Let's increase the first done. Three times the three proceed with hundreds of devas. Indra Dev killed Vritra and opened the doors. (36)
O Indra! We call you because of the sourdough food. Others call upon you to conquer the battle of horses. 
O Mon! You are a prodigy, omnipresent and protector. Please be installed in your original abode Drona Kalash. (26)
The horse and this world is born from the sea. He protects the stota from contact with the abductor violent. The false people who do not donate cannot find this abysmal God even when they live in immature water. 
O Lord of mantras Mon! Your holy passage is detailed all over the place. You become lord and spread out in the organs of the drinker. Your holy part cannot be attained by a person without penance and immature. It is the mature and the people who perform the yajna that receive your holy part. 
O Maruto! If my sin has been caused by my sorrow or sorrow due to the sin of death, O Indra Adi Devo! If I have received this sorrow because of the guilt of God, then O Maruto! You are capable of eliminating this sorrow or sin. You redeem me from sin. (6)
People win the Great Mon, who carries the same weight as a chariot, to bring a lot of money, just like a chariot. The man who aspires to war takes the great wealth-giving Mon into the battle. 
O Indra! You are always seen with the deserts, they are without desert fear. Yours and the glory of the Maruts are the same, so you are always seen with the Maruts. (3)
The person who knows this becomes dear to the beloved man as well as the beloved man. (6)
Those who are born of the very young agni matarupa are the ones who have become the bright agni youth. The agni with glowing teeth absorbs the forests and soon eats many grains. 
If the meat of a Brahmin's cow is eaten, it makes the eater poor. After eating meat, it gives bad speed to the eater. (10)
May Indra cross us through his Kalyankarini boat and protect us from enemies. (2)
The earth is the punishment, space is the womb, the day is Brahman, the electric light is and the point is hiranyamaya. (21)
Savita Dev, the inspiration of everyone appearing in the sky, has come with a razor shaving. O wind! You also come with hot water. Twelve Adityas, ElevenTh Rudra and eight Vasus - all of them with equal knowledge and wet the child's head with that water. O servants! You cut wet hair by razors related to Varuna and King Som. (1)
O aditiputra friend, Varun and Aryama Dev! You actually possess the present, beneficial for the yagna, the expansive and vast force. 
Hey Mon! Sit at the main place of the yagna to please Indra by being relaxed and desired and inspire Indra. 
 O Indra! You are opulent and equestrian. You give power to destroy tyrants like Vritrasura. Inspire your beloved money to give to the hosts. Knight and wise, get rid of sins by the grace of you. 
Everyone's chief Yama knows our ways. No one can destroy the way of Yama, by which the ancestors have gone, by which we all go. 
O God of Plant! With the grace of agni, irrigate the horse well with ghee. Please bring annamaya havi to the gods and deities. Please take Havi to other gods. (10)
O Indra! May you receive speechless praises from all sides. May the speeches be beneficial to all from all sides. Let us increase the age. Simulate your age. Please be satisfied and happy with our yajna. (29)
O glorious and lustrous agni! The host who praises you and performs yajna for you receives a wide house. Your servant receives a wish-fulfilling son. 
May the squeezed Soma sanctify me for yajna karma, for gaining strength, for life and for non-violence. (2)
 O agni! You are the best among the gods. You are going to perform the best yajna. You are immortal. They are going to complete this yajna well. We praise you. 
O King Varuna! Your medicines are hundreds of thousands. Your best intelligence be detailed and serious. Keep our sins away from us. Destroy the sins we have committed. 
Three people have crossed the agni and gone away. Other subjects have taken shelter around the praiseworthy agni. The great Aditya is located in the Bhuvanas and the wind has entered the directions. 
O Indra, great, wish to give us a son of food and beauty, including cows. 
We call the denoting, the vaishwanar, the matrishwa, the invocation by the rich, the masters of the yajna, the meritorious, the listener, the guests, the early agni for our protection and the yajna of the host. 
Oh my friend and Varun! By your grace, the seeker of cloud grain, the seeker of the food, the charming and the stunning roar. The deserts cover the clouds with their shobhan yatra. You rain red and faultlessly from the sky with the deserts. 
Human beings have possessed the lord of the yagna, the seer of all things and the great agni for happiness. Your ears hear everything and you are the most detailed. The host, his wife, and his children praise you for the divine agni. 
O vegetation! Kusha has laid. You sit on it. The gods have treated you as Agni Soma. Swathiti has given her a beautiful look like Tvashta. He now appears in the characters. (33)
O school! Don't throw your loops towards us. You seem to me to be underweight. We adorn you like a bride and fill you with material. (24)
Oh, faith! The devas decided to kill the asuras. Give my devotees and yagyakars the desired fruits. 
Brahmins, etc., give a greeting to a friend with the force of defeating the five people's enemies. Those friends hold all the gods. 
Hey Ritvijo! With the coming maruts with whom the powerful serve the hosts from the god Duloka, who has expanded his fame and is pleasing, today make a hymn in the yajna with a greeting to the enemy-destroyer and shelterable Rudra, with the same definite desire. 
O Sage Kashyap! You combine containing and qualified. We six sages ask you why Virat is called the father of Brahman. Preach that Brahman to these sakhas. (7)
O agni! The host who picks up the khuch and ignites you and gives you good food three times a day, O Jattaveda! He knows your speed, growing with the fuel etc. that satisfy you, and defeat the enemies completely by money. 
The disease that makes a man powerless and blinds him, I take out all those diseases related to yours from you. (4)
May our mother, our father, our cows and the whole world be well-being. Our mother etc. is of good wealth and good knowledge. We continued to see the sun for a hundred years. (4)
O Supreme Indra! Today hold the yajna called Our Stome very near. O Indra, who drinks the radiant and the somras! Let our yajnas for your item be beneficial. 
O agni! You become aryama 
O Vishnu! May you give us wealth from heaven or O Vishnu! May you complete us with wealth from the earth or O Vishnu! May you give us wealth from the vast world or O Vishnu! May you complete with wealth or O Vishnu! May you complete us with wealth with both your hands or O Vishnu! You complete it by giving us money with your right or left hand. For the happiness of Vishnu, we install the wood god. (19)
O Heroic Rudra! Your weapon should be away from us as a means of gohnan and human abuse. May we have the happiness given to you. Make us happy and speak words that are biased towards us. May you become the masters of the earth and the sky and give us happiness. 
 O Indra! You have a thunderbolt in your hand. You are strong and hostile. Your horses serve the interests of human beings. Sompan brings energy to you. We admire that oz. 
O tvashta! Strengthen the son's womb located in the veins that carry the urine from the intestines of this woman into the bladder, which are located towards both ribs. So that it can deliver in the tenth month. (11)
O friend God! You are gold-like. O Varuna! You are gold-like. O friend God! You are about to publish the articles. O Barun! You are the one who publishes the ushas. Both of you rise like sun and moon gods. O friend Dev!, O Varun Dev! Please climb the chariot. Both of you are Aditi, Diti, Mitra and Varun Swaroop. (16)
The sixth time of this is artava. (6)
No one can resist the praise of the extremely talented Varundev. Many water-logged rivers alone do not fill the ocean. 
East, West, North, South and the middle direction of these - thus the five directions, earth, sky, day, night, water, and herbs give me the fruits. May I achieve resolutions arising from the heart and heart. (9)
Spring etc. seasons are the cook of this odan and the seasons burn the agni day and night. (17)
The maruts whose unlimited actions extend into the sky like the sun, they possess the force of the lampth, worthy of yajna and the anti-hostile force. Their anti-hostile force is the best. 
O God! Just as people praise the early horse, so I praise you for coming early to the place of yajna. You bring us across the battle like a camel, so I praise you for coming to war. I call upon you, the creator of happiness, to find your friendship in death. Make us victorious in the war by succeeding our call. 
The hosts installed the Shobhan Yajna property in this agni and desecrated the look of the yajna. This brought the deathless God to know the time of the yagna. O agni! Your lightened flames spread in all directions like the streams and the gods who came to know them. 
O Indra! Come closer to the hosts who squeeze Som. We are well-praised. O beautiful chin indra! Drink somers. (1)
O Indra, enemy suppressor! Give thousands of grains to the Kanvavanshi sages. We ask for strong, yellow colored food for cows. 
Let us and our sons drink somras long-term and crime-free and distribute it with our children. Let those who hate brahmins be filled with all kinds of transgresssion. Today we ask the gods for the same protection. 
Oh, my! You are the conquering and blasphemous word like Indra. You be our special protector in this yajna. O the mans who bear the enemies! We praise your beloved. We know the originating hymn of the power by which you grow. 
 O agni! You are going to go up and down. You accept for the gods the lusts full of sweetness for the sake of tanman for our welfare. After accepting those desires, please also convey them to the gods. 
O people who want to fight! If it is true to have Indra, offer truthful praises to him. The Nem Sage with the Bhrigu gotra says that indra is not there. Who has seen Indra? Whom shall we praise? 
Salutations to the device that protects the head. Salutations to the armored. Salutations to those sitting inside the chariot or in an elephant's hood. Salutations to the eminent. Salute to the renowned army. Salutations to the man who is a musical instrument. (35)
Devagana chiefs ignite the agni that kills the vritra well and takes away money from the demons. 
Where are the Indras who have performed the famous deeds, between which people do they move and in which direction are they located? Indra! Which yajna brings happiness to your mind? What kind of mantra does you choose? What kind of choice would you have to choose? 
O God! We are curious. We ask you from the bottom of our hearts, did Vishnu absorb all the bhuvanas of the world in his three legs? Did the three worlds merge (at the periphery) of Vishnu's feet? If you know this, please let us know. (49)
Let the enemies' unfriendly weapons be removed everywhere. Oh, God! Take away from us the sin of the flesh. 
Large-speed deserts have come out of wide and ordinary space. Avyamrut prays to them to come. When the deserts add their own-moving horses to the chariot, they appear to be unique, with a special force and a pleasure booster. 
 Som is a demon destroyer. Jagadrashta hai. He sat in a gold dronakalash and became revered in the yagyasthal. 
O first protruding, the upper two teeth! You eat wheat, barley, urad and sesame. Part of wheat, barley etc. has been kept only for your delightful fruit. Don't do the violence of mother and father. (2)
O Aditya! You are happy to drink somerosa. The host couples who worship them with the best words and have faith, their masculine sons are peda. Money is abundant. There is peace and happiness in the house. (5)
In the yajna, with stones to squeeze the somras, we go in front of the earth-sky in the form of adornment and praise with a voice of praise. The agni-selectable, visible and revered lamps face up for the behavior of human beings. 
 O agni! You are a married, enlightening, knowledgeable person. Just as the chariot takes the designated place, so you convey the thing that is dedicated to the jindevas to those gods. You are omniscient. 
The flowing water knows the origins of both heaven and earth and hears praises. 
O school! You are full of strength and milk. You have been built by measuring on earth. You wear all kinds of food. Do not destroy those who receive you. (16)
O Swami of all gods Varuna! Your golden-made habitat is in the middle of the waters, where others cannot reach. For this reason, King Varuna, who has true deeds, should leave all the places of our body, that is, we do not have diseases like ascites etc. (1)
Aryama, Mitra, All-Round Varuna, the lord of The Lord of Havi, like Rudra, Pusha, Marutta and Bhaga Amrit, admired by the sages of other gods, is praiseworthy to all and give happiness to human beings. 
The sages in whom Brahma is Jyeshtha i.e. elder, the heroic deeds that those sages did, are the best of all, from this point of view, Jyeshtha Brahma expanded The Human World in the beginning of creation. Brahma was born before all beings. Who is god or man capable of competing with those Brahmas? (21)
 O Mon! You are found near the cave of Trit 
O marudgano! You climb on your bright, glorious, well-paced, armed and horse-made chariot and come to our yagna. O Shobhankarma Maruto! Bring us food to give it and come like a beautiful bird. 
O Lord Vishnu! No one among those born on earth and born in the future can find the end of your glory. You have held the sight of the visible and vast paradise above. You have also held the east direction of the earth. 
O thunderbolt Indra! I won't even sell you at the maximum price. O Indra who holds the thunderbolt in his hand. I can't sell in exchange for a thousand, ten thousand or even unlimited money. 
O son of heaven, Ashwinikumaro! At the time when the black night begins to turn into red ushas, I call upon you. You come to my yajna to wish for my good food. Accept him like a curse and forget the hatred towards me. 
Just as the waves of the sea hinder the boat, so let not the evil wisdom of all enemies hinder us. 
Our desire-worthy and regular hymns go well to receive The Lord. Let the great God, who always connects the chariots to go, and the great God, come and protect us. 
 O agni! You come in the form of energy. You give us food. You give us longevity. You save us from sins again and again. 
In our yajna, increasing Indra and performing the yajna, the seven who perform the yajna, perform the immersion of Indra by being sharp at the end of the yajna. 
O Sabita Dev! Please motivate all of you for yajna. Please make yajnapati lucky. You are divine and holy. He is the master of speech. Please communicate our speech sweetly. (7)
O havibhekta, the gold ornament, the one with praiseworthy and admirable knowledge, Ashvinikumaro! Come to us by a chariot as bright as the sun. 
For you, that is, for the gods of agni, for the ancestors and for the human beings, the parts which have been divided by three, O God! Father and man! Know those parts. I separate those parts for you. The part of the gods in them is being performed in the form of a havan in the agni. May that god part give favored results to this host wife. (5)
This agni is the bravest and age holder. They are seekers of thousands of tasks. They perform the host's work without laziness. May they please take us to the divine abode between the three worlds. (52)
Salutations to those who are snakes in the arrow form of demons, who are serpents who imitate vegetation. Salutations to serpents who live in pits and lower parts, (7)
O decent men! You along with your wives should wear orders in this yajna. This sacrifice is good. (4)
Those who worship destruction enter the darkness. Those who are worshippers of sambhuti (creation) also enter darkness in the same way. (9)
This yajna has four horns (priestly), three legs (three vedas), two heads (havi pravargyam) and seven hands (seven verses). This yajna is tied in three types of evenings, the great word-maker and the great god of human beings. This yajna is installed in the human world. (91)
O holy, Mon! Give us money that cannot be destroyed by a violent enemy and an enemy that cannot be overcome. 
May the sages who compose the five verses get this sacrifice well. (2)
O agni that dwells in the best place! We have brought you hymns for the son-in-law and for the welfare of the host. May we receive the welfare that the gods do. We will receive shobhan's son-grandson and speak many hymns in this yajna. 
 O Indra! You are unique, the giver of the desired wealth and the best. To increase our intelligence, we gained you. 
The Prajapati who is the sole master of all the moving beings who breathe and blink with his greatness, life and death are subject to like a shadow, I worship that Prajapati Dev through Havi. (2)
Sages like Nabhak praise Indra and Agni. They both cover the sea with seven roots and closed doors with their own speed. Indra is the master of everyone because of his speed. Let Indra and Agni kill all the enemies. 
The pair of night and day takes on a variety of forms. One of these two sisters is black in colour and the other is luminous due to its Shukla varna. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
May Dhata Dev give me the consent that comes in front of us, gives life-giving and non-diminishing consent to me. Let us also wear the grace and wisdom of Dhata Dev, who holds wealth that does not diminish. (2)
Just as a child drinks the milk of two mothers, so Som milks both The Divas and The Earth. Mon is a shashta in all drugs. 
We praise the same Indra with a tender heart, the one who got the soma of deeptiwala, the soma from milk, etc., and the purodash that gives satiety does not displease. 
O patient! You live for a hundred years and gain growth. Live for a hundred hemants and a hundred springs. May Indra, Agni, Savita and Jupiter make you centenarians. Through this havi, I have brought you as a centennial. (9)
O Indra! You are brave, of many qualities and advanced because of Our praise. You want us. Those who are hostile to us and hurt us, destroy them by your thunderbolt. O those with beautiful ears! Listen to us. Just as thieves obstruct the weary path in the way, so let the wicked spirit of the wicked, violent, by your grace, be not near us. 
The famous, gradually called the gods, the knowledge-rich, delightful, the holy light, the superior yajnakar and the agni with seven radiances. 
What speaks to the guest is initiation. The request for water is to bring it. (4)
In the morning, we invoke Agni, Indra Dev, Mitra Dev, Varun Dev and Ashwini Kumars. In the morning, we invoke Vanaspati Dev, Bhag Dev, Pushan and Rudra Dev. (34)
I call the Sun, the form of Indra, who has the glory of suppressing others, the conqueror of heaven, the conqueror of the enemies, the cow of the enemies, and the conqueror of the waters, through the morning, midday, evening. By the grace of those Indra form Sun, I should become older. (1)
The nourishers, serviceable and non-crumbling agnis eat the fine wood through their flames and expand the brightness. Indra, Vishnu, Varuna, Friends, Agni, etc., the visible deities make our days auspicious. 
O Indra! Although you do not want to harm a strong person, if we surround the Psalms with enemies, you free all directions for our horses to walk. O Lord Indra! Kill our enemies with a hard thunderbolt. 
O Varuna! Spread your praise in all directions consisting of human beings. You give me this object which has not been given so far. You are my saptada i.e. seven steps along. (9)
Those who restrain the external organs of action, while continuing to dwell on sense objects in the mind, certainly delude themselves and are to be called hypocrites.
O vanra! Go close to the enemy who harms us. Kill the one who harms us. The enemy who harms us, you scatter the parts of his body. (3)
The rays that wrap the water jump into the sky. Those rays return from the solar system in dakshinayan form, only then the earth gets wet with water. (22)
The god of good knowledge and omniscient is the master of all the movable worlds. O God! You increase our welfare today by saving us from committed or uncratic sin. 
O God of Agni! The meat of this which the vampires have eaten from his body, restore it in his body and re-transmit the life in his body with the power of mantras. (5)
The water of the sin-destroying Rivers like Ganga etc. comes out of the Himalayas and meets the ocean. May this type of divine water provide medicines that remove heartburn. (1)
Who buys this Indra of mine in exchange for ten cows? The condition is that when Indra has killed your enemies, give them back. 
 Spring is breathtaking. Summer is breathtaking. The rainy, autumn, hemant and shishir seasons are also breathtaking. 
The divine qualities lead to liberation, while the demoniac qualities are the cause for a continuing destiny of bondage. Grieve not, O Arjun, as you were born with saintly virtues.
Just as beautiful women with the same mind go to their husbands happy, they get the agni illuminating the streams of ghee. Broaden the agni. Streams of ghee are attained by the omniscient agni. Fire constantly desires those streams. (96)
O nirtai everywhere! Accept the life given by us. It is your destiny that we have decided at this time. You save us from sin due to disease. May this wish of ours be a great sacrifice. (2)
Just as the sun expands water with its brightness, garuda quickly expanded five varnas with his force. The speed of Garuda is going to give thousands and hundreds of kinds of wealth. Just as no one can stop the arrow going towards the target, so the speed of the garuda is not hindered. 
The one who gives attention to the gods finds wealth even without war, walks in the way by a beautifully moving horseman, and the friends, Varuna and Aryama, become equal donors and protect him together. 
The deserts said, "That is why we are ready to come to this great yagna with the nearby and huge-strong asas, shining our bodies with great brightness. O Indra! Be with us while experiencing our strength." 
O Indra! You are as bright as the sun. You are rich, powerful, successful and friendly. You reach out to charitable human beings. 
 O Indra! There is no god superior to you. May you receive somers just as the sea receives rivers. 
O sindhurup jalo! What the sun expands by its rays and for whom Indra has opened the path of transit, you are the same. You held the money for us. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O agni! A man who sweats and brings you wood and makes his head sad with the burden of wood with the desire to find you, you make him rich, obey him and protect him from those who desire evil. 
Horses were added to the chariot of Usha Devi, who is skilled in her trade. In that chariot, the deadly devgroup sat down to go to the yagna. Usha, worthy of worship and having varied movement, originates from the darkness of black color and comes towards the abode of human beings, treating the darkness as a cure. 
O Indra! You have understood our praises. So come to us from the back and forth and around and by crossing the Gandharvas, the fathers, the gods, the asuras and the demons. 
Agni, moon, sun, earth, water, sky, space, directions and sub-directions should be crossed with seasons from this tricircle i.e. nine deeds. Also help in this, the parts of the seasons. (2)
Indra, the enemy destroyer and friend of all beings, killed the vritra demon like devilish subjects. Just as the basis of the yajna of the Angira gotriya bhrigus had killed an asura named Bal, who abducted the cow, in the same way Indra violated the vritra. Indra defeated the Shajrus under the head of Someras. (3)
O agni with great wealth! It is for you that these mons have been squeezed and kush laid. Call Indra to drink somras for the sake of grace on us. 
 O agni! You are like the famous 
Abhishav i.e. someras, the one who works to squeeze, the yajnakar and the civilized man distinguish the sun and go to the world above it. This was imagined by the gods earlier. (1)
Behold in me, O scion of the Bharatas, the (twelve) sons of Aditi, the (eight) Vasus, the (eleven) Rudras, the (twin) Ashwini Kumars, as well as the (forty-nine) Maruts and many more marvels never revealed before.
O agni! Increase us by destroying the enemy who harms us by staying near or far away from us. 
 O Indra! You sharpen the yajna and vajra with your vastness, efficiency and superior intelligence. 
Please place the body of Savita Dev host on the lap of Mother Earth. We call upon Mother Earth. May they be happy and beneficial for all of them. (5)
Who swallows the forms? Who swallows all forms, including words? Who jumps and walks? Who walks away? (55)
Gyanvan Indra, walking around, walking around, walking around at will, know my god-related praise like a cow. Indra and Agni praise this eulogous cow, which immediately boils the more desired fruit. 
Please move towards west direction. May the wealth of the world protect you. Protect you in the form of vairupa samrupi, dasha stom and rainy season. (12)
Varuna covers his strong body by wearing a gold armor. Golden rays spread around him. 
I invoke the deity who pervades those who go back. Which is prevalent among those who go down and which prevents the speed of return of those who escape. (2)
When they see the diverse variety of living beings situated in the same material nature, and understand all of them to be born from it, they attain the realization of Brahman.
The planets and constellations that are located in the sky have been strengthened by Indra, that is why no one can bring them down. (3)
O Indra, lord of the water year and the maruts! You drink somras with purodasadi for sangram and happiness. Fill your stomach in excess of the soma you're going to make the item. You're the master of mon that was squeezed the day before. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come by a chariot full of go, horse and wealth. Many praises serve you. You are full of desired splendor and body. 
O Indra! You have been inferior to your brothers since your birth, without leaders and without bondage. The friendship you seek, you get it through war. 
The devas, who offered havi on the night of ekashtaka, who saw the night approaching in the form of Dhenu, praise him. She is the wife of Ekashtaka Ratri Samvatsar. She is a welfare doer for us. (2)
O Arati! We salute the man from a distance, who is in front of you and is only a speaker, does not work. Don't turn down this wish of ours. (2)
The very intoxicating, sweet and dull Soma is present in dasapavittra and is filtered into characters for Indra's sake. Hey Mon! Go to the gods with your intoxicating juices. 
 O Mon! You are dear to matiman 
O Madhu Lata! You should be located like honey on the front of my tongue and present in the root of the tongue as a flower of a water tree called Honey with honey juice. "You are only my body in business and come into my mind." (2)
Indra! Ashwinikumar, who has pusha, kamvarshi and shobhan hands, is pleased to receive the desired rainfall from the cloud that sleeps in the sky. O Visves who give the abode! Rejoice on this altar, so that we may find the happiness you have given us. 
The chariot of the sages is yajna. It has three periods of som squeeze, three backs, three vedas, three places and seven verses seven ropes. The ritwija somarupi plough the chariot to go to the devas. 
Indra, who has the same great power as the raining cloud, grows with praises of the son-in-law Stota. 
May this Vajradhari Indra give me fame, age, ghee and milk. (3)
O Brahmanaspati! Increase the prosperity of our nation suffering from enemies through the same gem that Indra has become frantic by wearing the gem that gives prosperity and strength. By your grace, let us be free from the fear of enemies in a nation protected by the affluent. (1)
O divine water! This sompatra is your womb. You should take it with love and nourish it. O Mon! Water is your folk. You wish him. You also be happy. Keep us happy too. Give protection. (26)
Today, who prays for protection from the host Indra Adi Devas? Who prays to Aditya, Aditi and Jal? Ashwinikumar, Indra and Agni, pleased with the praise of which host, drink the somras squeezed by him? 
    O Indra! You are a saturn, powerful, rich, fortunate and successful. We follow you. 
O Indra and Vishnu! You do great deeds in the intoxication of Mon, broaden the space and make people useful in our lives. All these deeds are worthy of praise. 
O agni! By Your grace, I will go to this world, heaven, etc. and from heaven to the better world without debt. Those who are the world of the movement of gods, those who are the people of the movement of ancestors, I should go there without debt. (3)
Salutations for the fast moving. Salutations to those who act quickly. Salutations to Vagwan. Salutations for the wave balle. Salutations for situated in water. Salutations to those living in the river and on the island. (31)
Oh soul! Praise the same Rudradeva, who is the lord of all the robes and the lord of all the herbs, perform yajna and service to the same powerful Rudra for the great self-welfare. 
 O hosts! As soon as he was born, Indra, who killed Vritrasura with an arrow in his hand, asked his mother who the other famous heroes were from. 
O Indra Dev! You are requested to destroy our enemies in wars. The enemies who are ready to fight with us, you bring them to the pit of decline. The enemies who wish to enslave us, you take them to the dark pit. (70)
O agni! You are going to increase the age. O agni! You are the one to complete the sacred work. O agni! Please give us energy-giving favors. You obstruct the wicked. (16)
Just as the sura maker puts alcohol in the leather vessel, so I throw the poison towards the solar system. Just as the sun does not die, so also we must not die. The sun brought by horses destroys distant toxins. Oh poison! The bees of the sun make you nectar. 
Indra, Vishnu and the soma squeezed for the air fall into the Dronakalash and are of sweet juice. 
The rise of this sun will make my destiny rise, I know it. I have defeated all the sons and subdued my husband. 
O agni! You lick the mouth of the ahut khuch with disgust and your flame is embellished. 
O Indra and Jupiter! Donate money containing 100 cows and 1000 horses to us. 
Indra's squeezed for drinking, the wish-fulfilling, the destroyer of demons and devabhilashi Som, filters from the dashapavitra made by sheep's hair and goes to Dronakalsh. 
 O agni! You are worthy of praise for a strong and brave man. You are like Indra in force. Praise this admirable form of you. O host! Worship agni with praise and worship. 
O agni, the guardian of the people and the seer of the people! Hosts who are adorned and wish for the gods serve you by praise, just as the horse that pulls the chariot is served. Give the sons and grandsons of the hosts the wealth of those who have wealth. 
Inspired by Indra, our enemy should cross the three lands and five people like Nishad and go away from where they do not come back. As long as the sun was in the sky, it did not return for many years. (3)
Indra Barun cha raines according to the wishes of King Aditya Dev. They rain according to the wishes of the desert. In the worlds with great minds, the chants of gods echo. (41)
O great Indra! You have been given all the powers for enmity in order to increase your glory. O Yagyapatra Indra! In war, all the gods have given you such a force that you can destroy your enemies as well as possess them all. 
 O agni! You are dear, the best and the giver of knowledge. You wake up our hymns. You take life for us. 
 O agni! You are a wealth giver, a hota and a joy giver. Let the characters full of somers reach you First of all we praise you. Those praises also reach you. 
We wear this gem that drives away demons, vampires, etc. for a long life and for great delightful deeds, which is made from the famous Jangid tree in Varanasi. Because of this, we follow ourselves without being violent. (1)
O agni! Give this celibate life till old age. O Agni God with a burning and ugly spine because of hatred! Being satisfied with the sweet and pure cow, you should protect this brahmachari in the same way that the father protects the son. (1)
A sage named Atharva has filled this chamas as a means of drinking someras to please Indra with yajna kriya. A group of Ritvijas eat the havi left over from the havan with this chamas. For this spoon made by Atharva Rishi, the moon always drips someras. (54)
O Indra and Agni! Vasishthavanshi Vipra, who desires your kindness, praises you for giving you success and for getting the first to get the money that is consumable. O indra and agni with enemies and enemies! Increase us with new and charitable funds. 
O Ashwini Kumaro! Both of you are divine and (yajna's) adhvaryu (priests). You come here in a chariot shining like the sun. You should complete this yajna of the gods (well). (33)
Just as yellow threads wear armor, seekers wear Arlu Mani i.e. sticks made of Arlu tree. May the Arlu Mani we wear end the obstacles related to the cruel creatures of the shravasyu, the purifier and the kabre color. (3)
O Sindhu! At the time when you led the book to fertile places, Varuna made a detailed path for your movement. You go up the high path above the earth. You are sitting in the front of all the rivers. 
Wishing to go to Hulok, located above heaven, the yajnakar man reveals the selected agni. i.e. ignites. For that good deeds, the path that illuminates the sky goes, the path of giving happiness is illuminated. (14)
When one frog imitates the other's word in such a way, the disciple repeats the guru's words and all the frogs jumping over the water do the words. O frogs! At that time all the joints of your body are healed. 
But the great souls, who take shelter of my divine energy, O Parth, know me, Lord Krishna, as the origin of all creation. They engage in my devotion with their minds fixed exclusively on me.
Let us be dominant. Let us nourish our body with milk. May our minds be filled with feelings of well-being. Please hold money for us. Whatever is lacking in our body, please fulfill it. (24)
O agni! The deeds of yajna, the grandson, the ritwija and the neshta do, is yours. You are ignorant. If you desire to perform the yajna, you also start doing the work of the administrator. You are Adhwaryu and Brahma. You are the homeowner in this sacrificial house of mine. 
As bright as the sun, as white as a drop of water, as powerful as a deer, with great hymns, the creator of water, with the power to relieve sorrow and lord of this world, Varuna, has made the ocean stable. 
The ritvis with shobhan mati receive wealth and chariots from the yajna of this spectacular agni. The agnis called for the yajna are published in all the subjects only after they are ignited. 
We praise the goat-like-horse and annaswami pusha. He is called the lover of his sister Usha. 
O agni! You are the JataVeda, the enemy and the one who hears Our call. We call you. 
O leader, lord of unlimited wealth, without death, water-logger, famous for the truth, meritorious and young Maruto! You are the subject of many praises and the one who is going to rain more. 
We wish for the happiness of the mountains, the happiness of the rivers and the happiness of Vishnu with all the gods. 
O agni! You are the womb of medicines, plants and all beings. So you strengthen my womb. (7)
O burn the flowing! Send the sweet wave of the waterfall, which is as sweet as your womb, to Indra. O burn rich! Listen to my call. Your wave is disgusting and admirable in the yajjanas. 
O aschinikumaro! The measures by which the sages of Patharva attained the strength of the body and became absorbed in the struggle in the same way as the fire lit by the woods shines. Come up with the same measures by which the Shariaat was protected in the war. 
 O host friends! You come, sit down and sing prayers for Som. You decorate the yajna like decorating the baby. 
The first born eldest father turned away from us and left. All those ancestors who were born after them should get a full flow. That stream should be of hundred numbers. So soak everyone and flow. (72)
O Saraswati! You are as vast as Vishnu. That's why you are distinguished. O Siniwali! You will produce children living in the beautiful intellect of God. (15)
Hey Shankhpushpi! You are born swallowing the signs of misfortune whole. You make my fortune. Hey herb! You have one hundred branches and thirty three roots. O woman! Through this thousand-petalled conch shell, I satiate your heart with the fire of desire. (1)
O Prajapati! Just as the wings are applied to the back of the arrow, so the sage Sankusuk has been kept by the Devas as the revered day of Samvatsar. Just as horses are stopped with a rein, so accept My revered praise. 
O ghost! I donate for you. You are going to strengthen your life in Yamlok through the rice I give you made of milk. (30)
O Yaayu and indra! Both of you Come close to the somras that the host have prepared . Oh, both gods! With your arrival this yajnakarma will be completed soon. 
The soul is neither born, nor does it ever die; nor having once existed, does it ever cease to be. The soul is without birth, eternal, immortal, and ageless. It is not destroyed when the body is destroyed.
I'm going to rain. I have held seven rivers flowing on earth. I am going to do Shobhan Yajna. I give people water. I have given the way for men to walk through war. 
When the Usha met the Sun, its rays got a strange splendor. When no nakshatra was visible in the sky, no one could know the all-round rays of the Sun. 
We have praised the fire that holds the utmost light through the mantras of havyapradan adi karmo and archanasadhak mantras. Just as the sun makes the raining cloud with words, so all of us hosts praise this agne. 
Worship the agni that is praised from the point of view of the group of cows etc. May he give us gentle wealth and bring other gods in this yagna of ours. Therefore, the gods should get the honey-colored streams of ghrit. (1)
Which of the following categories of gods should I call the beautiful name of? Which god will let me die on the vast earth? So that I can see my parents? 
Usha, who comes from the east direction like the young woman, adds red bulls to her chariot. It erases the darkness in the formless sky. It is only when Usha comes that all the houses are on fire. 
O Arjun, now learn from me about the five factors that have been mentioned for the accomplishment of all actions in the doctrine of Sānkhya, which explains how to stop the reactions of karmas.
O Indra who kills the enemies! The hosts who lay kusha in the yajna call upon you Indra, who is raising the thunderbolt and among the people, to help in the battle. 
O furious Indra! Let the horses attached to your chariot bring before me the chariot worthy of worship by all your people. Hymns with qualities i.e. Bharadwaj call you. May we progress with you today while we are happy with you. 
We return the loan to the rich while living in this world. While living in this world, the living rich should repay the debt. I have eaten from the rich, O agni! By your grace, I should be freed from the debt of eating another's grain. (2)
True, mahati and yajnapatra Ushadevi, along with other true, great and sacrificial gods, destroys the darkness and gives light for the cows to roam around. The songs wish the ushas. 
O Jativeda Agni! You are located on the heads of all the three lokas with Aditya. We receive you through inspirational hymns and mantras. You are going to complete the vessel of the yajna and the dyava-prithvivi. 
O death! It's afraid of you. You tell it that it is worthy of your grace. You have mercy on it. It should be non-violent, with all the organs like eyes, etc., getting a good audience and old age and getting more enjoyment than other people for a hundred years. (8)
O century! Let the horses be attached to the right and left side of your chariot. After consuming somrupa food, you go to your beloved by the same chariot. 
Fire is moving fast. We call upon them. Fire is moving fast. We call upon them. Agni yajna is good Brahma and sukha diya. He is the god of glory and gives wealth to the host. (34)
Brahma should take me wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm reach with the help of initiation and penance. Brahma worship Brahma in me. May Brahma get this sacrifice well. (8)
O agni! You come before us. Come to us with age, dominance, children and wealth. Come to us with wisdom, opulence and nourishment. (7)
Indra goes like greedy banias to steal the money of the one who does not donate and those who increase human adornment give that money to the havyadata host. The person who stimulates the force of Indra falls into adversity. 
The sages ignited the agni with penance. With their voice, the sages ignited the agni. We edge the agni in heaven. We request Agni to sit on the seat of the elaborate Kush. (49)
O Ritvij! Mix the nail and pestle placed in front and strong like iron together and place it on the leather of the lying bull and crush the paddy made of somalata parts for the host. O wife! Crushing paddy with ulukhal and pestle, you obstructed the enemies who wanted to kill our children with the help of the army. Raise the pestle and give our children an elevated place. (9)
O King Mon! Don't make us you playful and frightened. You do not slay our hearts by the light. 
 When Indra appears, the vegvati cows greet him. Heaven and earthland bow down and greet them. We also recommend them. 
 O Indra! You are amazing. We don't have the kind of economic potential you have. Give us plenty of money with both your hands. 
O Agni! You are the light, the creator of the yajna and the signifier of karmaphal. You grow up in the yajnashala. 
 O Mon! You are a world-class and a succulent. Fill heaven and earth with your juice just as the sun fills the whole world with its rays. 
We ask Indra for unlimited wealth with brave sons and servants. O Indra Dev! Give us money that never ends and keeps giving us happiness. (3)
O god with all-powerful and well-to-do ordnance! Give us all kinds of money after our prayers. 
O proud God of sin! Leave me. You are going to subdue everyone. You give me pleasure. O Papama! Establish me without pain in the world that is received as the fruit of virtue. (1)
O Sun God! Anger those who hate us or those we hate with the power you have to heat. (1)
May the praises of the sage named Evyamaruta go to the masters of the maruts and to the powerful, the most sacrificial, the many abhyanpatras, the adorned, the glorious, the praise-seekers and the early maruts. 
I praise agni and som, the wisher and admired by many, to get food. They worship them through the havyas in the Ritwij yajna. They give us a three-story house. 
The four ghee-giving cows serve this mon. They sing all of them are sitting together in the space holding. Many of those huge cows that are sanctified by food spread the som from all around. 
May Aditi and her God, Varuna, friend and son named Aryama and a group of forty-nine Maruts protect me. Let their malice go away from us. Separate the shanru who hates us from us. (2)
He who knows the puri of Brahman, who is called purusha, has created the upper and oblique parts. The same man is pervading all directions. (28)
The nymphs who live in space sit in the yagna and squeeze the meritorious som. They raise the soma that irrigates the yajnashala and begs him for akshaya sukha. 
The agnis related to Indra have been awakened by the Ushas holding fast at the time of darkness. The broad line and earth should also be conscious. Today, I choose to protect the gods. 
May the sons of Rudra and the Maruts, who perform beautiful yagya like fire protect Yamaruts, for whom the long and vast abode in the form of space is famous, and whose misdeed-less Maruts have great strength in movement. 
The ritvajs please Indra, who gives the desired fruits and is pleased by the praises, with the godly found som for the sake of excellence and longevity. O Lord Indra of Mon! You must do sompan while you are happy and we will give many songs to the stotas for the sake of the yagnakarma. 
O Indra! You know all these extraordinary possessions, which are revealed and hidden. You fulfill my wish. You command and you are the giver. 
O agni! Let us not leave the deities in the same way that people do not leave the milch cow or sing their little calves. 
In the enemy, the most skilled, the strongest, the supreme with various chants, the sanghibhuta, the over-served by the yagyakars, the ones who consume residual somras, the leader of the cloud, etc., the deserts, with ornaments worn on their bodies, shine like sun rays in the sky. 
 O agni! You went to the water like a mother even after being a forest wisher. We did not suffer from your departure. You become invisible and appear around us. 
 O Indra! Please listen carefully to our invitation. You pay attention to the prayers of Brahmins and mystics. Please consider us to be equal minded and heed our request. 
The devas have said that soo drips for Indra. The lord of the world desires to worship by som stutis by the guardians and shakti of the hymns. 
O warriors with the same intellect and deeds! All of you capable of defeating this enemy, be courageous by putting forward the brave and fierce Indra. You also do industry with the industrious Indra for the destruction of the enemy. Indra is the conqueror of the group of enemies, the conqueror of the cows of the enemies and the one who holds the thunderbolt in his hand. Idra is the one who conquers the enemies and destroys the armies of the enemies with his power. (6)
Vaisalya Takshak was his vatsa and Alabu was his character. (14)
Sacred speeches flow from our heart and mind like a stream flowing properly. The agni of yajna is of golden light. Streams of ghee flow in the middle of the agni and make it golden. (38)
We establish you with verses. We establish you with verses. We establish you with Shambhu verses. We establish you from paribhu verses. We establish you from the verses. We set up you with our mind. We set you up from The Watch. We establish you from Sindhu. We establish you from the sea. We set up you from Sarir. We set up you from Kakup. We set you up from the triad. We establish you from poetry. We set up you from Ankup. We set you up from the letter. We set you up from the line. We establish you by step. We establish you from the specific line. We establish you from the womb. (4)
O revered Usha! You were called by the famous sages for protection and food. You are endowed with wealth and speed and accept our praise. 
We call Indra with the Maruts to make friends. The díau, prithvi, sun, varuna and rivers obey their laws. 
O Aditi putra devo! You are worthy of being pleased through yajna. May you free us from all sins through this yajna work through the truth related to yajna. (2)
Just like ten and nine i.e. nineteen internal and external organs, Shudras and Aryas were created. Day and night were the masters of them. Prajapati was praised with twenty-one hymns. Small animals also appeared from those hymns. Varun Dev became the swami of them. He was praised with twenty-three hymns. From those hymns and small animal appeared. Pusha Dev became their deva. He was praised by twenty-five hymns. Wild animals appeared from those hymns. Vayu became the deva of them. He was praised by twenty-seven hymns. It is from them that the world of heaven is pervaded. It is from these that the earth is widespread. In them, eight Vasus, eleven Rudras and twelve months reside. Aditya Dev became the master of them. (30)
"The Bharatvanshi people who wished for cows reached across. Brilliant, I praise you. Complete the other rivers, both of you producing food and with rich wealth, and flow quickly." 
May we be pleased to free us from the sins we have committed in the village, in the forest, in the meetings, in the senses, the sins we have committed against shudaras and vaishyas, in possessing authority or in pursuing it. (17)
O Sun! You are seated on this chariot adorned with fine flowers, many forms and many colors that shine. Which is well dressed and has beautiful wheels. You reach the world of nectar and receive it as the gift of marriage make it soothing for your husband. (61)
O wifely soul! Praise our yajna and drink som with rit. You are a gemstone. 
Who has not heard that Indra destroyed the vritra demon. There is no power that Indra does not have. (3)
But you cannot see my cosmic form with these physical eyes of yours. Therefore, I grant you divine vision. Behold my majestic opulence!
 O Indra! There has never been a god or wealth giver than you before. There has never been a god of worship like you before you. 
O gem! I will become the destroyer of enemies, guardian of the people, the master of my nation and the one who subdues the enemies with your influence. May I be able to rule over the heroes of the enemy army and their subjects. (6)
O darbhamani! Pierce the hearts of our enemies and those who hate us. You cut the head of our enemies and drop it in such a way that the grass, grass etc. produced on the earth is cut. (4)
O fire! You preserve the seasons as well as the Garhapatya yajna. Worship the gods for the welfare of the devasevak host. 
O burn! The powerful part of you that Brahma made is brought to this yajna. O wife! These are allowed by water mantras and Brahma. Fill them in a pitcher. This yajna called Brahmaudanasava is prepared to give you the path of heaven, whether the son who gives the fruits of heaven, the giver of grandsons, the recipient of animals like cows, horses, etc. and provides to many servants. (15)
This ishtaka dev is revered in the north direction, in the form of wealth and sacrifice. Their weapons are sharp and anti-enemy and anti-weapons and explosive. They are undefeated. They are world keepers and village keepers. The pioneer of them is two nymphs named Vishwachi and Ghritachi. Water is the weapon of these. Air is their sharp weapon. May agni give us happiness. Please hold agni in your jaws all those who hate us and those we hate. (18)
Hey Mon! Your different streams lead to the dashapavitra made of white sheep's hair, like the rain falling from the sky. 
O fire! Because of you, Varuna is a fast-keeper, a friend a dark-worshipper and Aryama is a behostoofible. Just as Nemi holds the arrows of the wheels of the chariot, so the fire is born by its sacrificial deeds, omnipresent and defeating all with its brightness. 
Vasha, who is brimming with beauty and happiness, lives with the host in this world. When the host donates vasha, she gives him all the wishes. (35)
 O Indra! You are a vegetarian and a prodigy. Just as people call a virtuous person 
O Indra! Pleased with the yajnas and somras performed reverently, you killed the asura named Chumuri for the welfare of the Dabhiti king. You killed sixty thousand warriors simultaneously by your wisdom while giving the kingdom to Pithinus. 
May the happy and fast-paced deserts protect our yajna and son, the pervading and transmitting Vagdevi Saraswati, do not see anyone but us. Let's both of them increase our wealth together. 
The same fortunate radiance that is as sharp as attack in lion, tiger and serpent, as dah in anni, as curse in Brahmin and as heat in sun, the same fortunate radiance has given birth to Indra. That radiant goddess came to us, becoming one with our glory. (1)
Indra's wolf drives away the enemies and churns the sheep. O Indra! You come to this yajna with your superior intellect and listen to the praises. (2)
O Mon! You have to be eclipsed in the urn. You're green. You plan to come from a distance with the help of your horses. You come with Indra Dev on a chariot with green horses. (11)
O Indra! You feed on the ripe purodash and try to feed it. Havan worthy purdosh goes for you. 
Like leaders, these frogs follow god-made rules and do not destroy the seasons that come as early as twelve months. When the rain comes after a year, the frogs, who are sad by the heat of the heat, come out of the pits. 
Indra does beneficial work in both the worlds. They listen to Indra accept our word. Indra Dev is coming to do Sompan. (1)
Shraddha's daughter was born from the tenacity of Brahman in the beginning of creation. This is the belt of sages like Marichi, who gave birth to creatures, has been born in this way. O melon! Give us revolutionary wisdom and give us wisdom. In addition to this, you give me heat and semen. (4)
O Indra! It is kept on the cleaned kushas after thoroughly filtering. You come here soon and drink that Som. (5)
O Indra! You are kind to all and see them and create night and day. You roam in all three worlds. (19)
O Indra! Use the vajra on enemies wishing to kill us. O lord! destroy all enemies secretly, whether arya or a servant. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Protect the host who serves you, without malice, and the giver of all sins. Aryama sees and protects a simple-natured host. The host performs the yajna of the friend and Varuna by the mantra and adorns him with praises. 
The noble and intoxicating mons that hold paradise are squeezed. The three-stream mons roam all over the saavans. When the stotas praise the form of Som, the priests wish for the worded som. 
O workman Indra and Agni! Whether you are in the sky, the earth, the mountains, the herbs, or the water, come from these places and drink the squeezed somras. 
Friends and Varuna, the masters of the satyaphal, the water year and the yagna, show the true way to each host, give shobhan daan and also give huge wealth to the sinful hymn. 
O thunderbolt Indra! Praises please you more. You give us money and kill the Brahmins. 
O Indra! On the full moon day, with the help of your thunderbolt, you killed the satisfying, the powerless, the unconscionable, the unwise, the evil-minded, the sleeping and the calm water-stopping. 
O agni! Save us from malicious monsters. Save us from the non-donating, the sinner and the violent. Let us defeat the willing people of the army with your help. 
O you who drink somers and drink the light, and the air who drink the holy somras! The prithushravas who walk by the assh, dwell in the house and walk with fourteen hundred and seventy cows have met with those who squeeze the somras only to give you somras. 
We call back the mind that your mind has gone to the distant sun and Usha. You live to inhabit this world. 
O agni! You get up, sit down (on Bedi) and perform the yajna. Please protect us with your divine wisdom. You come with your huge rays and give darshan. We call upon you with good complimentary compliments. (41)
May the vadavas etc. in the middle of the water protect you. May the agnis that humans burn to perform yajna or to cook food protect you. May the jatharagni god, who knows those who are born, protect you. The lightning of the sky should not consume you while living with your body. (11)
O Indra with vrithrahanta and hundreds of intellects! Let the horses that are ploughed in the chariot despise the sacrifices of other people and bring the stable lord in your chariot in our yajna. 
O Indra with horses named Hari! You go drink the somras squeezed into the yagnas by your horses. The powerful Indra receives the yajna only. You make a donation by understanding the subject of the yajna. 
O guest-like worshiper, ancient, bright-tongued haired, many forms, rich, pleasing, well-guarding and destroying old trees! Hosts have given you the place as homeowner. 
Just as the rivers that desire to meet the sea fill the sea, so the Adhwaryugans squeeze the vines, preparing the soma squeezed for the sake of your Indra and make the somras through the sacred arms from the stream of soma. 
O Mon! You be holy to the Vachaspati. You are powerful, auspicious and pure from the womb. Flow to the gods of whom you are part, (1)
In whose heart does the Supreme Man come and delight? What objects are offered in the inner body of the Supreme Personality of Godhead? O Brahmin! We hosts are keen to know this. Please please give voice to these curiosities of ours. (51)
We drive away the one who hates us from the sky, earth and space. (6)
I have received the same gem with energy, milk and beauty, which Was tied by Brihaspati Dev in the hands of devas, which destroyed the asuras. (26)
Aditi had produced many acclaimed and sacrificial hymns for her own enlightenment with the idea of protecting herself. 
 O agni! You give us protection. Give us the money you take away from your chariot. You are fantastic. May our generations also be successful. 
Just as the chariot is tied with gambling ropes to hold, so the agni has taken your mind to survive, to become indestructible, and to stay away from death. 
O Indra! Let us get money and food as well as a force that is the call of many and the glory. May your best wisdom, capable of annihilating enemies, help us. May your intellects provide the stotas with the major animals and ass, such as cows, etc. 
This is the revolutionary aschinikumaro! I pray forever for your welfare grace. You protect all my deeds. O you see! Give us great, childlike and admirable wealth. 
The senses, mind, and intellect are said to be breeding grounds of desire. Through them, it clouds one’s knowledge and deludes the embodied soul.
O woman! According to the arrangement made by Brahma regarding Taurus, I do child-bearing deeds for you. Let the womb go into your vagina. After that you get a son, may that son give you happiness, and you also be a source of happiness for him. (5)
O Fire with Amitprabha and the predecessor of the gods! Our praise in humans satisfies you. Just as the milch cow milks the hymns of the yajna, so your praise gives innumerable wealth. 
The host who worships a agni with a strong force by giving a greeting and greetings, or who serves the fast-paced agni through praises, becomes prosperous. 
Just as there is dolok, the earth, this mountain and the whole world pole, so also this king remained unmoved among the people. 
O Indra! The deserts with mutual love enhance you through hymns. For you, Pusha and Vishnu have cooked a hundred buffaloes and three characters are filled with intoxicating and hostile Som.  
We send our praises to the sages as messengers. We ask the sages for milch cows to prepare somras. The Sages are as fast as the wind and do the doers of the world's doers and immediately surround the sky from all sides with the help of fast horses. 
O darbhamani! Kiss my enemies and those who gather the army against me. Kiss those who have ill-will towards me and those who are my haters. (1)
The subjects who have appeared from Tapobal, who have come here with the Gayatri form vatsas, they are in you with the mind of welfare. The sun of these came to you. (10)
The disruptors that come near these husbands and wives should be eliminated. Destroy the inconveniences through these two facilities and keep their nerves away from them. 
The most guide, the brightest, the friends of the gods, the sinless, the best-meditated and the knower of everything, the Mons are coming to us, relaxing. 
O Indra! Come. You come from heaven, wording the yajnashala for the welfare of mankind. You fill the earth and the sky with rain. 
O vishwadevo! Come here, listen to my call and sit on this kush. 
O very powerful Rudra! The four directions of the east are in your possession. The earth is in your possession as a consumer through vast space and spirit. All the breathers on earth are also in your right. Hello to you for your grace on all this. (10)
Oh, God! Let the clitoris be rich. With that money, we are rich too. Oh, God! Everyone calls you again and again. In this yajna you become our followers. 
 O Mon! You are holy and you are sweet. The host crushes you with a stone and extracts juice. They submerge you with water. You are refined by filtering with a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
O the best friend in the world and Varuna! I raise you by praises. You both tie up human beings like a rope. 
In this war Indra had killed the atheist distinction and Yamuna had appeased the tarts and Indra. Aj, Shigru and Yakshu district had given the heads of horses to Indra in the meeting. 
Ashwini Kumar is Vaidya and Sukarma. Saraswati Devi is a good exploiter. May Indra Dev, who perform hundreds of sacrifices, give strength to the hosts in their senses. (75)
Indra does not wish for five or ten helpers to destroy enemies. Indra does not meet those who do not squeeze som and do not nurture their brothers, such people they suffer or kill and make their devotee the possessor of a complete goshala from cows. 
Yajna brings us to fruition. Seniority remained under our control. The immorality remained under our control. Stay away from anger from us. We can resist the wicked. Let our maturity increase. Let our dignity increase. Our seniority will increase. Let us prove to be the first (best) everywhere. Let our reach increase. Let our age increase. May our nobility increase. Let our dynasty grow. May our excellence increase. May yajna bring us (all the means) to fruition. (4)
May the Dhata Dev of the South protect me from the fear of nirtrati, the goddess of sin. Just as the earth given by the Giver protects the consumer of heaven, so it is going to protect me. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! Become the one who gets a part in this yajna. (26)
This sage, Sheyavashva! You should patiently worship the saints of praise. They are the characters of yajna and are happy to have the food in an uninterrupted form every day. 
May indra's horses, who have a powerful, large body, and mutually happy, bring to us indra, the guardian of man, the vajra in his hand, the powerful, the weakest of enemy armies, the one who is full of desire and the power without dispute. 
All the armies have chosen Indra, who faints the enemies. That Indra is highly powerful and fierce. (1)
 O Mon! Please be bright, divine, elixirious and flow on the earth for immortality. 
 Indra is adorned with all the beauty. In the yajna, seven priests recite many mantras to give havi to Indra. We invite those Indras in Somyagya. 
O Stotao! Indra, the swami of the world, is very great. Call them here when the sommeras have been squeezed. (12)
The suns that put humans into their work, the gods, the memos and the water, rise from the desire to drive the wheels of all equally. The green horses attached in the chariot pull the sun. 
Oh, God! Give us riches, strong and childly and worthy of praise by many. May the gods who live in heaven, who live on earth, who are born of cows and born of water, fulfill our will. 
Today Hota performed yagna for Goddess Saraswati from the middle part of Aries. Before the haters, those who have the right to receive food from the male, may the gods be pleased to receive food from their men. Fire digests that food and spreads it hundreds of times in the form of air. There should be no damage to the armpit, waist, genitals and other organs. Those organs should be strengthened. That was it! Please perform yajna for the welfare of all. (44)
O agni! You burn the demons with your warmth and eliminate the demons with your fast. Let the foolish monsters destroy you with your ultimate swiftness. Those demons who are satisfied by taking the lives of others, grieve them. 
Indra! The warrior, the giver, the dust-blower, the one who is pleased with the hosts, the one who pleases many by the rain, the roaring, the drinker of Som in all the three saavanas, the chief of war and the protector of all the subjects of Manu. 
One becomes fit to attain Brahman when he or she possesses a purified intellect and firmly restrains the senses, abandoning sound and other objects of the senses, casting aside attraction and aversion. Such a person relishes solitude, eats lightly, controls body, mind, and speech, is ever engaged in meditation, and practices dispassion. Free from egotism, violence, arrogance, desire, possessiveness of property, and selfishness, such a person, situated in tranquility, is fit for union with Brahman (i.e., realization of the Absolute Truth as Brahman).
May the praises made to the earth and the heavens worthy of praise and beneficial to mankind protect me. The said two guards meet to protect me. Oh, God! Your praiseworthy, we satisfy you with the food you have and desire food to be donated. 
O husband and wife! Start the work that benefits the hereafter and after this become united. Both of you should serve by keeping faith in the worlds of heaven etc. which are received as the fruit of karma. (3)
O the best agni among the annadatas! Take the same hearing and praiseworthy havariate wealth that we have given you to the gods. 
The intellects contained in our hearts desire to perform yajna. Our intellects desire gods. Our wishes go to the gods for fruition. Apart from these gods, no one is our giver of happiness. Our desires are limited to the Indradi Devas. 
O deathless, in every time the one who is jealous, the guardian and the praiseworthy agni! The gods and the human beings made you messengers. He had installed the awakening praddha and the prajapalak agni in the yagna by namaskar. 
Hey friend and Varun! May you protect Bharadwaja, Gavithir, Vishwamitra and Kuts Rishi. (5)
Just as a host pierces kusha for the sake of yajna or inspires the water of the air clouds, so I praise the Ashchinikumaras enough. He had got kishore Vimad's wife by transporting her to swayamvar before the enemies with his chariot. His chariot could not be found by the enemy army. 
O Jativeda Agni! You should make the godless without death a bearer yajna, perform their yajna with havi and please them with hymns. 
I am frightened and travel quickly into the sky and receive their shelter, praising the sun. O sun! Let us be in your grace and not receive violence. You give us a long life. (37)
Usha, the sun-son who is well-versed, the skilled leader of beings and the one who gives birth to the best fruits, is seen and destroys the darkness as the night passes. 
Laba for Som, Baya for Tvashta and Gosh for Dev Wives etc. are found in the law of guhyatal bird. There is a law of parushna for the kulik and grihapati for the sisters of the gods. (24)
May the agni of true strength, vaishwanar and capable of conception burn those enemies who treat us like the wicked, who want to do violence to us and who treat us as enemies. (1)
In the battlefield, the vampires who search for us to eat and want to kill us in the middle of the new moon night due to the anger caused by the enemies, we defeat them with the effect of mantras. (3)
The earth on which the flowing water travels equally in the night and during the day, such an earth with more water should give us fruits and brightness like milk. (9)
O priests! You prepare someras by crushing with stones, squeezing it. O wind! You plough horses, bring chariots. Please drink somers for pleasure. (70)
Those who appear by defeating the constellations, the first born in the world and like the wind, the fast-moving sun comes with rain, inducing the clouds to roar. They should protect us by destroying diseases etc. caused by surya tridosh. May the straight-moving sun, which illuminates its brightness in three ways despite being one, give us happiness. (1)
At the time of the recitation of each group of mantras, Soma Dhanaswami pleases Indra. The squeezed somers at the time of each hymn satiate Indra. With mutual and equal enthusiasm, Ritwij calls Indra to protect him in the same way that the son calls the Father. 
The ancient mons are nichud. The hawk bird sent by his mother had brought Som from heaven. Mon separates his sweet juice from the three lokas. Afraid of the arrows of a bow-bearing named Krishnanu, Som goes around and meets with sweet juice. 
 O Mon! You enter the matkas as a waterflight by sanctifying and together with water. You are the giver of precious money like gems etc. and sit in the Yagya Mandap. You are bright, serving the interests of the gods, beautiful, bright and flowing. 
Som is holy. There are swarvits (waterfalls) from all sides. Sanctify Som. The sun sanctifies the sun. Faith makes you pure. (4)
He revealed this sky and earth that covers all the worlds, in which six bodies and directions reside. The directions he illuminates, the angry sun that insults the learned Brahmin, who commits violence or suffering, O Rohit Dev! You make him tremble and weaken him and put him in bondage. (1)
Don't let rivers that benefit the world like a mother drown me. The pomegranate non-aryas have pulled me down by the bonds well. A non-arya named Tritan had tried to cut off my head in many ways and also hurt the chest and both the shoulders. 
Indra said, "I don't know anyone who says that I have killed those who perform the godly offerings in battle. When I go to war and destroy people without godly offerings, scholars describe in detail my heroic deeds." 
We praise the lust for wealth, the glorious and the agni that touches the sky, proving its purpose. 
 O Indra! You be the protector of our army in wars. Let our arrows win enemies. Conquer our heroic wars. May the gods protect us in the yajna. Victory should be inscribed on our flags. 
O Mani! You are the one who plunges enemies into mourning, shines, gives anger and is not worth touching like a light. Hold on to kill an enemy more powerful than me, and leave an enemy with the same power as me and move on. (5)
O Indra! Come to us as spiritual and protect our chariots with your best wisdom. O you very powerful and bright Indra! We offer you the wealth we receive from your grace and praise you. 
O Indra! Destroy the universe and remove the angel. Remove the angel from our horses, cows etc. (7)
Pani said, "Hey Sarma! What have you come here wishing for? Here this path is very far and round, it is difficult to walk on it. What kind of thing do we have that you have come for? How many nights did it take you to come and how did you cross the river?" 
O Indra of a hundred yagnas! Please us by being merried and given money by the most sacrificial somras that we squeezed for you in ancient times. 
Indra, who crushes enemies, powerful, brave and destroys the cities of opponents, should ignite the agni by churning the forest in this yajna, with the effect of which we can destroy the armies of thousands of soldiers of our enemies. (1)
Those who are located in the sky and with thousands of paths have declared this in heaven. Those who are reluctant to go to war, yamdoots are always ready with a loop to tie them and never close their eyes. (3)
 O Mon! You are an intellectual enhancer. You go to the kalash like waves of water. You come in a sacred vessel like the animals of the forest. 
O agni with the knowledge of omniscientism and yajnakarma! You are the sons of the heavens and the earth. O conscious agni! You should honor the gods by giving different havans in this yajna. 
O Annaswamy Ashwinikumaro! What man serves you the most today? Heady by the wise! Who pleases you by the sacrifices? 
O Indra! The place for your House has been created. O Indra called by many! Come from that House with the Maruts and you increase us as you protect us. Give us wealth and be pleased with our somras. 
Indra Dev is stunning, the protector of the body, the winner with his defense means and never the loser. They perform yajna with happy offerings to them. They are self-conscious. Please take them to receive sweet havi. Please do yajna for them. (2)
 O agni! We all praise 
When he walked towards the east direction, he became strong and behaved according to his age and made his mind annad i.e. food eater. (1)
Through the penance of celibacy, the gods violated death, that is, the gods became immortal. Indra conquered heaven for the gods through celibacy. (19)
Hey Rudra! Where is your hand of happiness that makes the medicines that bring happiness to all? O workman Rudra! Forgive me quickly, destroying godly sin. 
The sins we have committed while awake or sleeping through eyes, through mind, speech. May Swami Somdev of Pitulok purify us through the father's work done by targeting the ancestors. (3)
Savita Dev! You are wonderful. We choose you. You are the father of the world. Kanva Rishi milked the cow from thousands of streams that bear the rays of Savita Dev. We accept your consent. (74)
O son of strength, agni! The man who seeks your mercy, the famous, the giver of food, the one who walks on horses, the bright, the sacrifice, and the beautification of you every day, serves you. 
 O Indra! The hosts call on you for assistance in the war. You hear their call. You help armed warriors when they call them. You are requested for water rain. Brahmins dedicate havi to you. 
These cows with a great knowledge increase the power of Indra by feeding their milk. They already tell indra's enemy-destruction, etc., deeds for the knowledge of enemies. Thus they demonstrate indra's authority. 
Ashwini Dev gave eye light with glory for the host. Indra Dev took on sense power with speech for the host. (80)
O one who resides in the best places like heaven, O Jataveda and O agni in the form of water power in everyone's bodies! Eat the ghee we have measured with khuva etc. and also destroy the demons. (2)
Let them put an end to the cruelty of the virtuous and the bearer Indra and the agni demon jati. The demons that cannibalize may become childless under the influence of both of them. 
    O Indra! You are going to destroy enemies. You give us plenty of money. We worship you for that. 
O patient man! I get tuberculosis out from bones, fat, veins, arteries, hands, fingers and nails. (6)
 Hey Aditi! You deserve praise. You come to us with all your defence equipment. Give us happiness and peace. Remove our enemies. 
O Ashwaswamy Indra! Just as the great and revered somers is kept in the vessel, so you also accept it. You will be happy to drink it. O karyati Indra! This Mon will fulfill your desire and give you happiness. 
O Indra! When Venus sharpened your power with the help of his force, that pure force of yours made the earth and the sky in fear with its sharpness. O Indra, who has a gracious attitude towards the hosts! Complete by force, by your will, be added to the chariot and let the horse as fast as the wind bring you in front of the yajnaanna. 
Let us protect the Ashcharinikumars and achieve shobhan's arrival. Oh, without death! You give us all the children, the children, and all kinds of good fortune. 
Let the disease-free ushas come to us and rise up with the wide agni. Ashwinikumar ploughed horses in his fast-moving chariot to come to us. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
 O Indra! You are going to wear thunderbolts. You come to the Yagya Mandap with your horses to drink this someras prepared by mixing curd. 
The Puranas, scholars and scholars who tell behind him, in the middle or around him, they all praise the sun. They call Agni second and Hans third. (17)
O the deserts with bright fills on the chest! The workman Rudra created you from the pure belly of the earth. You are adorned with your ornaments in the same way that the sky is adorned with stars. Enemy-eaters and water-year deserts are illuminated like lightning in clouds. 
When cows sit in the goshala, deer sit in abodes and human beings are ignorant because of sleep, at that time the invisible, the unseen, the blind, the voracious ones come and cling to me. 
O sun! You move in directions and directions through your fame. You roam among humans and animals only through your fame. May I also be as rich as Savita Dev in the lap of the unbreakable earth. (38)
O agni! Be overwhelmed by the sharp intensity, destroying the violent and the malice and burning the demons. 
 O agni! You touch heaven. We want glory from you. We praise you with welfare hymns, celebrate you. 
O King Indra! Do not end our yajnakarma by doing year-to-year karma in your place of origin day and night, becoming mutual sisters and brothers. The power-giving havi is received by Indra. Indra give us his friendship and food. 
O son of the earth, Mon! Listen to the praises I speak. Just as a wife gives happiness to her husband, so you give happiness to the host. You become dynamic among our praises for our lives. O praise worthy Mon! You beware of our powerful enemies. 
Remove the tigers and violent animals that roam around, that is, wolves, bears and demons from us. (49)
The filling that reveals the form of these maruts is the same, with bright golden necklaces in their arms. The armaments shine in their hands. 
O dead man! You meet the Father, Pitamah and Prapitamah i.e. Baba through sapindi method. That is, you get a place among the ancestors. May you also be with the king of the ancestors who are Yama. Superior to Pitrulok and in the sky, in the Dulok i.e. Savarga, that is, yagya, homa etc. clearly stated by the Vedas, Purta i.e. smriti, inspired by the Puranas and scriptures, meet both types of rituals like stepwell, well, pond, devmandir construction etc. The meaning is to consume the fruits of both those kinds of deeds in heaven. You should give up sin and get the best house built in heaven. May your soul with graceful radiance meet a body capable of enjoying the pleasures of heaven. (58)
O Jupiter! You destroy the wealth of those who consume their own wealth by not giving it to us eulogists. Those who do not follow fasts and hate mantras are growing up in this world. You separate them from the sun. 
This soma goes into Indra's stomach. It is like a friend to the performer of the yajna and does not waste his desire. This soma is found in thousands of streams, similar to the man meeting a woman. (60)
All gods like Indra should leave our enemies and come in front of us. They enjoy the havi given with the word Deva Vasht. They should all consume that sacrifice of ours. Pleased with that sacrifice, may all the gods make our armies victorious. Don't make the armies of our enemies victorious. (14)
This sacrifice should be well received for those with blue nails. (4)
I also sacrifice the agni that hijacks the force of the body and takes it inside the waters. (7)
When agnis hold the combined, brightest and best light from the waters that move in space, the revolutionary and all-round agnis cover the basic sky of all the water with its brightness. The brightness spread by the stunning agne had become a bright group. 
O God of Agni! Make the host in whose house we are performing the yajna prosperous. Som Dev and Brahmanspati Dev call it their own. (3)
Vratya i.e. the group husband who benefited the groups was the motivator of everyone. Bhaga gave great inspiration to the people. (1)
 O Indra! You should drink succulent somers prepared by mixing cow's milk. You are happy to drink it. You become brothers who give us money. You show us the path to progress. May your wisdom protect us hosts. 
Because of this crime, we attack the enemy. This tribe and its son are our enemies. (2)
The earth is the two ears of that ocean, the sun, the moon, both the eyes and the seven sages are his life and his air. (2)
O best amongst the Bharatas, four kinds of pious people engage in my devotion—the distressed, the seekers after knowledge, the seekers of worldly possessions, and those who are situated in knowledge.
O Gods! By your grace, let us live up to a hundred autumns. By your grace, let us live healthy till 100 autumn. By your grace, let us live till a hundred autumns i.e. old age. Just as there is a father for a son, we should get your protection. We never die in the middle of life. (22)
O more mouded, with enough money and a wealthy giver, Aschinikumaro! You must bear the world and praise this praise of Mine. 
O Indra! Hosts who know your glory perform yajna for your own purpose. You have destroyed the enemy cities protected from the trench all year long and made them suffer. O Swami of the army, Indra! You subdued the anti-yajna cult and using force rescued the vast earth and the great ocean that was under it. You had to take his grain. 
Let us listen to the great praise of the wise and willing ritvijs in the yajna. O sun and moon that dwell in the sky and move! You know this hymn by your wisdom. This is the earth! You know the praise by your wisdom. 
O disease! You are also going to have authority over the mind. You get away. Tell nirrati to get away from the mind of this living man. (24)
I set before me the angels of the gods and the agni that carries the wind and praise them. Let them sit the gods in this yajna. 
O teacher! Squeeze the somras for Indra sitting on the chariot. One stone is placed on top of the leather on the other stone. The host is adorned with a squeezing somras that completes the yajna. 
O Indra who does beautiful deeds! You remain the most excited to sompan because you are most grow up among all the gods. 
O Indra! You are the master of the desired things and the creator who is going to inspire karma. O Indra! You are the protector of the psalms. If you are the special item of Somras, protect us from the enemies and be great. 
Oh, my friends! Sit around properly. We have to praise the sun soon. The money-giving sun is beautifying. 
 O Desertion! You are revered and named. You attain the shape of by conceiving in your dham 
That which seems like poison at first, but tastes like nectar in the end, is said to be happiness in the mode of goodness. It is generated by the pure intellect that is situated in self-knowledge.
In front of us, we serve the present, fame-giving and more successful Indra by worshiping him through namaskar etc. O Indra! You provide us with the kingdom inspired by you. May we be successful with that donation of yours. (2)
The ritwijas, etc., had established the famous, the one who called the gods respectively, the wise, the delightful, the one with the holy light, the best yagyakarta and the agni with the seven lights. 
 O Mon! After filtering, your juice is offered away and to the nearby gods. Madhur Someras is irrigated for Indra. 
Thirty-three gods, pleased with the three types of power, physical, verbal and mental, kept gold safe in the waters. With the gold in this moon, this gem named Trivrita should be worn in a mani-bearing man like the three forces of thirty-three gods. (10)
These agnis produced in the forest tie the tree-like horses with simple creeper ropes and add them to their chariots to move around. Our friends are beautified by agni rays, growing from pieces of wood and eating them. 
This fire becomes the subject of the desire to see in ten directions. That is why fires become joyful and praiseworthy. These great gods and small man are for everyone's life. Just as the father follows the child, so the food-rich and all-seeing fires follow and protect the host in many places. 
At the time when the water falling down moves, it roars like the word of the thunderbolt. When the deserts rain water on the earth, the electricity appears facing downwards. 
Eternal and seven-sided agnis are specially adorned. When they are adorned on the lap of Mother Earth and on the north-vediform breasts, they say the word shobhan. They never sleep because they are produced from the abdomen of the lumbar. 
O Indra! We get money containing cows and horses. We get food to get knowledge before others. 
 O Marudgano! Vasishtha Rishi does not praise even the little ones of you, that is, praises the little ones too. Today, in this Som Yagya of ours, all of you should gather and drink Someras. 
O Indra! Feed us, give us money with your right and left hand, and do not take us away from money. 
O heavenly family Indra! You come to us. O worldguard Indra! Come to our defense. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the zoo, so go to Dulok. 
Those who worship the above Lokpalak in the form of Aditya with the Lokpalak in the form of Agni located below and the one below with the one above, who in this world speak this while making themselves known as visionaries? From what does the divine mind arise? 
O agni! You are the one who completes udak, completes honey and completes prana vayu. (37)
Fire sharpens its darkening radiance, eats the havya, rules over everything like the wind, and erases the darkness of the night. O agni! Let us win by your grace that which does not give you a favor. Go to the enemies who attack us like a horse and finish them out. 
With the inspiration of Someras, the instrument of this yajna, I choose Sukhdata Indra and Agni for the stotas. They should be satisfied by drinking som in this yajna. 
Inspired by the power of this mantra, my enemy roamed free from sons, grandsons and all the heroes. His friends should also abandon him. Make electricity cut it into pieces on earth. O host! May the gods kill your enemies. (14)
O Desertion! You shower water, money and food for the hosts. You enjoy drinking somers. You fight with your enemies. Somerus is wavy and sweet. You drink it. You are the king of Someras. You have been absorbed in the kalash for Indra Dev and Marudgan. Bahi Indra dev b is the original place of Marudgana. (38)
O aschinikumaro! Know the wise hymn who has performed the ritual of your yajnas again and again. Similarly, know the sacrifices of the son of Kanva. 
Brihaspati Dev received Usha Devi to see the cows hidden in the darkness in the cave of the mountain. Jupiter received the sun and agni to light. By receiving them, Jupiter destroyed darkness with light. Brihaspati Dev violated the cow form asura and took out the cows in such a way that marrow i.e. fat is taken out of the bones. (9)
For the treaty, the friend, the deputy head for the house, the rich for poverty, the skilled in gathering resources in the emergency, the interest for the siddi should be considered paramount, the skilled in purification for the sacrament, the skilled for the attainment of knowledge, the person nearby when suddenly the work comes, the skilled in the urge to accept it and the one who supports the force. (9)
O the chief air god among the gods! Please be pleased with your heart and give us food, water and yajnakarma. 
O yajnapatra and the needy, Indra and Agni! Whether you are sitting happily in your abode, whether you are happy to arrive at the yagna of a Brahmin or a king, come from all these places and drink the squeezed somras. 
May all the powers that saptrishi know in the world give me happiness, may I get happiness and may I get protection from all. (13)
Invoke the Sun follows the praiser. The middle brother of those suns is the air god who carries water in the sky. Agni is the third brother of sun god. In this way, I consider the sun to be the main and surprising. (1)
They are established in perfect knowledge, who subdue their senses and keep their minds ever absorbed in me.
 O Mon! You have attained birth in heaven. You are powerful, happy and successful. The hosts receive you in the form of food on the land. 
O sin god, a man made lifeless by creation! I pray for your life from agni, the eternal and deathless God. He knows all those who are born. O man! Just as you do not die and be happy without death, I do the same kind of peace work for you. May this peace deed related to you prosper. (13)
We take tuberculosis out from your stomach, from the branch, from the navel and from the heart, which is the poison of all poisons. (12)
Yajna let us be pod ghosts. Food should be obtained from yajna. Good speech should be attained by yajna. Get drinks from yajna. Get juice from yajna. Get ghee from yajna. Get honey from yajna. We eat with relatives. We drink with relatives. May the rains bring our agriculture to fruition and increase. Let us penetrate the enemies. May yajna give us all the fruits. (9)
Vasishtha, who aspires for wealth, similarly praised Shaktiputra Agni for his wealth. May agni increase our grain, wealth and strength. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
O Bharansheel Brahmaudan! Apart from Brahmins, Kshatriyas etc. who sit to eat you, you have suffered the pain that demons cause. In the past, the Brahmins who know the mantras of Bhrigu Angira etc. enriched by the son, grandson etc. in the world, who know the knower of the sage gotra and pravara, the knower of the ancestors, etc., should not eat you and get troubled. (32)
O Indra! Many sages with Gautam gotra are chanting mantra-like stotras for you. Provide many types of money and food to these praisors. Just as Indra Dev has come to protect us at this time, so he should come to our yagna on other days. (16)
O salt! If you are as powerful as eight bulls, then produce children from this cow, otherwise you will be considered powerless. (8)
O stotao! Praise Indra, who is an enemy-destroyer like a bull, who conquers the enemy like a young bull, who grudges enemies, deserves respect, who gracefully gives both divine and earthly wealth, who is best in the donors and has both kinds of divine and earthly wealth. 
O adhwaryu! We'll both praise. You answer me. We will both do dear praises for Indra. You sit on the thrones of the host. The uqth by both of us for Indra has been plausible. 
Hey Mon! You who shower sweetness and pour out your juices with wealth and give us the brave sons and the foodworthy. Hey Mon! Be interested in Indra as you are clean and give us money from space. 
O Indra! We inspire you to find the force that destroys the circle and defeat the enemy army. 
O house of stone! You are mine. The sinner who comes from the north direction with the desire to kill me, he should come near me and perish. (4)
We know you by heart. They know the sun falling down from heaven. When you go through the path, your ends come down. We see those ends too. You are smooth. (17)
Indra has set the sun with light in the sky and has completed the heavens, the earth and the sky with his brightness. They have made the earth perfect by holding it. Indra has done this work in the drunkenness of Somras. 
O darbhamani! Kill my enemies and those who gather army against me. You kill all those who have ill-will towards Me and those who hate Me. (9)
The deserts, with their fast speed, also vibrate wide, thick, non-raining, unbeatable and famous clouds. 
The flames of agni that do the word arise in heaven to destroy demons like sharp ordnances. The light of agne when joyful gives torment to the demons. The asura-army that obstructs cannot stop the agni. 
 O agni! You are an angel, a divine carrier and a charioteer of the way. Please make us powerful and successful, including Usha and Ashwinikumars. 
Valor, strength, fortitude, skill in weaponry, resolve never to retreat from battle, large-heartedness in charity, and leadership abilities, these are the natural qualities of work for Kshatriyas.
O agni! The flame-like tongue of yours which is watery and wise and inspires you to call the gods, with the same tongue, make all the gods worthy of the yajna sit in this yajna to protect us and drink the intoxicating soma. 
O Sages Mon! Separate the actions of the enemy who killed us from the earth and by your people and forces. 
Hey Mon! Just as the water from The Dulok gives thousands of kinds of food to the people, so your unattached streams give us food. 
O Indra and Agni! You come to us with cows, horses and money. We call indra and agni devas for friendship and happiness. 
Heaven and earthland have been strengthened by the power of Varun Dev. Heaven and earth are superior and are without old age. They are the basic source of strength. The earth is ghimasi, a refuge of the worlds, has the ability to exploit extensive and special sweet juices. (45)
This gem was given to us by vidhata. The creator created all beings with the help of this gem. With the help of this gem, destroy your enemies. (21)
Annad, who knows this, eats food through yagya. (20)
O Indra! Just as the dove receives the dove willing to conceive, so you receive this somras of yours. Also accept our prayers because of this somras. 
O agni! The act of calling on the gods, the words of praise and the worshipable uquth are born of you. For the host who does the right deeds and the charity, the vikrant form and wealth come out of you. 
 O Indra! You are patient. Please wisely provide the desired substances to the praisors. You are as helpful for this, just as its wheels are helpful for a chariot. 
O god of the earth, the sky and the worthy of sacrifice! At the time when the characters of the yajna, the gods and the hymns, take the vow and describe your bright lamps, at that time you praise your agni for completing the yajna. 
O Ashwinikumaro! One wheel of your chariot moves in paradise and the other walks with you. O Lord of water Ashwinikumaro! May your welfare wisdom come to us in this way, just as the cow comes to the calf. 
Oh, Usha! Donate money and cows to us in many ways and in many ways. O god usha! Give us the glory of destroying all enemies. O Usha endowed with the action of food resources! Give us money.  
O wishing Indra! The patient and the fast-paced soms fall for you in characters called Chamu, made like a wish-fulfiller for the hosts who see everyone, who desire the chariot-ridden and true-powered Som Devas. 
O gods who give the abode! You should put the sin that we have insulted you by the use of the word or the mind, on him who attacks us and practices sin towards us. 
 O Mon! Somers, refined with good hands, goes to Dronakalsh making a sound. Your color is golden. You are loved by many people. Please give us the money you want. 
I call upon Raka Devi worthy of being invoked by the best of praises. Let that good listen to our call and know our meaning for yourself. She weaves our deeds with a holeless needle and gives us a brave and multi-donor son. 
The Maruts said, "O you who are working, Indra! We have the same power as you. You have done a lot of things together with us. O Balavan Indra! We've done more than you. We desire rain by doing deeds with you because of our desert." 
O kampoor Indra! The mon squeezed by a man named Avar comes to you like a sly by not giving him much money. All the gods went out with their mouths down. 
Just as the sun pervades space, I know the birth of serpents. Just as the night pervades the whole world with its darkness, in the same way, I remove the poison in the body with medicine. (1)
In three ways, Ashwini Saraswati, Bharati and Ida Devi have intensely made Som a cry for Indra Dev. It is equipped with Som medicine. (63)
O Indra! You killed the shusna asura, the tormentor for the sake of the dog. In the first part of the day, along with killing the Kuyava asura, you destroyed thousands of demons with your thunderbolt and broke the weapon called the chakra of the sun in the battle. 
O agni! This is the same for your growth. Please increase us with your increase. We will increase yours. We find our growth. Fire produces food. We salute you, that is, we clean you with water. (14)
O wise host of the few, born of penance and advanced from penance! I've seen you with my mind's eye. Be happy to have children and wealth here and be born as a child by the wish of the son. 
The ancient Indra has defeated the Bhuvanas with his power and made himself famous as his overlord. After this, Indra, who holds the world, has pervaded the earth and the sky. They have surrounded the whole world, putting the dark monsters in grief. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Protect us in this folk. Do not let the poison that makes up space and especially the growing poison come towards us. The poison called the malignancy of aj is eliminated. Snakes cannot recognize the sound of our feet. 
The substances that have injured the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not be freed from the loop of day and night. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (24)
In the aranis, the present agni is said to be the current agni trunnel. When born, their names become Asuras and Narasans. When they spread their brightness in the sky, they are called matrishava. Air is produced on the early movement of agni. 
O ghost man! May pala be pleasant for you and may the water make you happy and rain. O earth full of cold-karini herbs and O manduqaparni medicine that produces happiness! Give happiness to this man of agni and calm the agni that burns. (60)
Rain the winds and rivers of honey for the host. Let the medicines be melody for us. 
At the time of the hymns of yajna, the god named Vaaji with limited speed and shobhan anna should be the one to give us happiness. They separate the old diseases from us, destroying the demons of abuse and thieves. 
O donor and leader Ashwini Kumars! You have given life to Shyava, in three parts. 
O fire! You have admirable ancient brotherhood with the gods and you are very well known. Just like Manu's yajna, sit in our yajnas and worship the gods through the havi. O earth and sky! Let's know this thing about us. 
May our blessings be true. O earth! Give it food and make it good children. Both of you agree and give it strength and money. O Indra Dev! This man should defeat his enemies by conquering the enemies and taking possession of the fields with his own strength. (3)
Afnavan and other Bhriguvanshi sages had ignited the agni, the lord of all the people, to be spectacular in the forests. They are the ones who call the gods, the very sacrificial ones, the ones who are set up by the sages in the yagnas, the ones who are praiseworthy and the best of the agni yajnakartas among the devas. 
There are personalities like yourself, Bheeshma, Karna, Kripa, Ashwatthama, Vikarn, and Bhurishrava, who are ever victorious in battle.
We call Stota Agni, Indra, Mitra, Varuna and Ashwinikumars in the morning. We invoke Bhaga, Pusha, Brahmanaspati, Soma and Rudra in the morning. 
Yama said- We've never done this before. We stay away from untruth while speaking the truth. The sun holding water in space and his wife Saranu, who lives in space, are our father and mother. Thus we are brothers and sisters. 
The root with which maya of asuras had subdued all the gods except Indra in battle, O husband! I subdue you through the same herb. I do this so that I can be your extraordinary beloved. (2)
O sun! We have children for 100 years. (7)
O creation, especially the agni between the benefactors and the arinites! You are the womb of the earth. O children of strange colors and trees, agni! You defeat the enemy in your fast dark form. You are born with words in the same flora as mother. 
The speed with which the elephant becomes giant, the speed with which the king is bright among human beings, the speed with which animals become radiant in the water or the speed with which Gandharva etc. become bright in the sky and the brightness due to which Indra etc. attained divinity in the beginning of creation, O Agni, make me bright at this time with that absolute speed. (3)
O gem! There are one hundred and one obstacles on earth. The gods wore you for their peace. O gem that removes obstacles! I also hold you for the same purpose. (6)
This stotao! Praise the agni that fulfills the desire of human beings. Fire protects us from the enemy. 
O Indra! Destroy the firm bodies of demons by making the radiant and sharp ordnances more radiant. You're furious. We give you the power and power to be able to take on you. Go among the enemies while you do the word and cut them. 
O agni! You are the lord of the hosts. They adorn you with a bright and friendly consciousness in your home. O agni, the best of service and the lord of all things! You give thousands, hundreds and tens of kinds of fruits to people. 
The Supreme being is omnipresent, bright, radiant, without body, devoid of nerves. He is free from wounds, divine, without sin, scholarly, contemplative, omnipresent and self-sufficient. He has provided suitable facilities for everyone since the beginning of creation. (8)
 O Mon! The learned host squeezes and filters you. To get us food juice, you come to the urn filtered in the form of a stream. You get cows etc. animals. 
Hosts should do violence against violent enemies with the help of their brave sons. He expands the wealth of the cow and understands everything himself. The host whom the Brahmaspatis accept as a friend, he lives for more days than his son and grandson. 
Around Indra, the current sevika Rashmis go to give light. These most powerful Indranucharas wished to destroy The Lord's son of The Lord, Shushna. Indra knows in many ways the essence of the shushna, the son of the lord. He also knows the essence that is hidden in the cavity. 
O Mon! You are delicious and drinky. You should flow from your holy streams to the drink of Indra Dev. (25)
 O Indra! O agni! You are the destroyer of all the sufferings of the mighty worshippers and are eternal. We call upon both of you gods. 
The son should be the one who works according to the father. Become a gentleman towards mother and son etc. The wife should say sweet and happy words to the husband. (2)
O agni! You are able to defeat enemies, that is why you give me glory. This havi is well done havan. (2)
Hey Mon! You shower us with gold, horses and offspring, and give us wealth containing cows. 
O Varun Dev! The birds that fly in the sky do not have the same power and valour as you. They haven't even got the same anger as you. The ever-moving wind and the flowing water cannot move at your own pace. 
O heavenly daughter of Shobhanjanam Usha! We vasishthagoras raise you up with praises. You give us light and great wealth. Oh, God! Protect us forever by means of welfare. 
Brahma attains shrotriya and Brahma attains Parameshti. Brahman is this man and attains agni and calculates samvatsar. (21)
O cooked and worthy of havana! God sat near you. You come out of the agni and please them. You sit in the stomach of Brahmins, pure with milk, yogurt, form, nectar. These Brahmins, who know their own tribe and pravara, should not eat you and destroy you, that is, you should not commit violence against them. (25)
O Jativeda Agni! Today you are ignited in the house of human beings and worship the Indradi devas. Fire to worship the stota friends! You call the gods knowing the praises made by the Psalms. You are intelligent and efficient. 
The sky and the earth are the mouths and the voice of truth. When agni dev comes near the host and sits to complete the yajna, then these heavens and earth are worthy of hearing praise. (29)
Indra is also the swami of five lands, humans and opulences. (15)
O bride! Be in front of you, inside, outside and in the middle, that is, Brahmins on all sides. You should get the house of gods and disease-free and get happiness in the husband's house. (64)
Fire comes with its wealth like cows come to the enclosure. Fast-paced horses come to the horse. Cultured hosts worship agni. Please agni to provide plenty of wealth to your priests. (42)
Our priest always serves Indra and Praise Indra. Those who condemn Indra, should also leave from other countries besides this country. 
Indra's autobiography - I asked the stoes to squeeze the somras, but they did not listen to me. He praised my son Vrishakpi in my place, swami Vrishakpi was pleased to be my friend in the yajna of Somras. I'm the best. 
O sobhan-karma wale mon! Give money to the one who praises in all the three saavans and quickly rain down the goal of dhara loka. You do not separate us from the money that gives us house, son etc. We get the varied goldform wealth of yellow color. 
O serpent named Arbudi! Show our enemies with your love to trees, diseases of trees, wheat, barley, crops, forest trees, gandharvas and nymphs. You show them amazing awestrucks etc. (24)
O Ashwattha! Bind my enemies with the unforeseen noose of death, the goddess of sin, whom I hate and who hate me. (5)
Barley is the sacrificial form for initiation. The lajas purchased are welfare and sweet for Som. (13)
O fire! Call the gods here to the yagna and sit in three places called vagina, adorn them and drink someras with the season. 
 O Mon! You are a strong, happy, money giver, destroyer and many people. Today, in the yajna, we remember that force of yours. 
O Mon! Just as you fill the ocean with water, in the same way you are also filled with water for the gods to drink. O intoxicating and awakening mon like alcohol! You go to Dronakalash, which collects juice with somlata juice. 
Neither the Father nor the Gods know the negative energy that was given to Swapra by the Devas. Adityas asked Varun how to avoid nightmares. Varun told Adityas a way to avoid dreams. The Adityas established a nightmare indicative of negative fruit on a sage named Mitra, the son of waters. (4)
Devmata Aditi protect us along with other gods. Let Indra follow us without being arrogant. We cannot do violence to the friends, Varuna and The Somrupa food of Agni. We will extend them by the anushans. 
O Indra! Some of The Vritra's attendants were making fun of you and some were crying out of your fear. You fought with all of them in heaven and brought the bandit Vritra from heaven and destroyed the family well. Thus you have protected those who prepared the Somras and the praiseors. 
O great and vast earth! Be bright with the radiant mantras in this yajna, because the clouds that rain water establish the vast and great earth-sky and roar all over the place with the moving and famous maruts. 
O agni that knows the remedies! You remove varundev's anger on us. O the most sacrificial, the most powerful and the radiant agni of the lord! Take away all sins from us. 
O agni! Your faces are all around, so protect us from all around you. Let our sins be destroyed. 
Good night! Thieves may not be able to steal our horses and yatudhans cannot become masters of our sons etc. Thieves and smugglers should run away from far away routes by their means. A giant snake like a rope with teeth runs away. Move away from us willing to do violence against others. (7)
O Indra! Give me the wonderful wonders and riches I have asked for while reciting the hymns. I transcend sins through those riches. You know the hymns we have made with utmost respect. 
Hundreds of people who used to shake the earth with their walk were defeated only because of the violence of the Brahmin's child. (12)
Indra assumed som as fast as a bull. Astrologers, Gomedha and Age in these various yagnas, the chewed Somers were drunk by Indra. Indra, the lord of wealth, had killed the first cloud created by taking the thunderous arrow. 
 Sweet and intoxicating somersa is prepared for Indra. O Mon! This blissful juice of yours must reach the gods. 
O hasty, lord of all and infinitely powerful Indra! You strike the thunderbolt on this circle. Just as the sellers of meat cut off the animal's parts, so you cut the joints of the vrikra's body diagonally from your thunderbolt, it will rain and water will start flowing on the earth. 
I utter Vritra Hanta, the name that pleases Indra, who has come close to me. With the desire for marriage, I worship Indra, the swami of a hundred, who kills Vritra, worshiped by the Vasus and who makes fame of Shakti, to get the desired fruit. (1)
Let the pains that are removed from the difficulty and the strong ones are removed. Those pains vibrate and frighten us by becoming powerful. The Great Mon has come close to us. The mon by which we drink increases our life, let us get it. 
O Som and Rudra! You wear all the herbs that benefit our body. The sin committed by us is bound in our bodies, loosely remove it. 
O Angirao! You have established the sun in paradise through the yajna and made the earth famous for all the mother earth. You get the good people. O Angirao! You accept my son of Manu at this time. I will do your yajna well. 
Indra is very heroic, yajnakarma wale and shobhan stuti ably. My voice praises Indra. Indra killed the vritra, lighted up, became powerful and defeated the enemy and eliminated the armies of the enemies. 
Hey Adityagan! We get your protection. Your support gives happiness when fear is present. Hey Aryama, friend and Varun! Just as those who walk the way leave the donkeys, so let us as your followers and forsake sins. 
I serve you a sage named Tiraschi. You listen to my call. You're great. You have a good child and give us the money. 
 Brahmins are sanctifying Ritvij Someras. They are praising it from the psalms. They are filtering it with a sieve made of sheep's hair. The Ritvijas who filter it are powerful, strong and strong like horses. 
O Mon visible by the thousands, the one who fills the thousands and the unscrewing mon! The ritwij cleanses you with the help of dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
The hosts expanded the yajna called Purushamedh from the male form Havi. He saw the energetic and serene in him as Havi. (4)
They sit in agni yajna as devapatti, adhwaryu, grihapati or brahma. 
O men! He who, as soon as he was born, took the first place among the gods and men and adorned the gods with his heroic deeds, by the strength of which the earth and the sky were afraid, and who was the hero of the great army, he is the Inder. 
 O agni! You are dear to the gods, admiring to them, with sweet tongues and revered. We request to deliver our havis to the gods in this yagna. 
O sun! You are a luminous and all-light. The rays are your hair. Seven horses named Green take you in the chariot. 
Who has entered this man the ocean everywhere and the ever-flowing waters which are red, lohit, copper and smokeless in colour? Who gave these waters the power to go up, down and slant? (11)
O Maruto! Your famous, regular and light-filled power will never go away from us. Let our glory and our cities not be dilapidated. May we receive your strange, new and word-making things in the ages. The wealth that is worthy of suffering and not destroyed by enemies, is ours. 
O Indra! You properly deliberately give us strange money. You give incremental and laudable wealth for our growth. What do we have to pay for the increase of Indra's force? Tvashta made vajra for Indra and he has rained. 
The stagnant somas, by their stream, like a fast-moving horse, fall down into the tronkalush like a living river. Pure som sits in dronakalash and is mixed with cow's milk etc. 
O vidhata and bright agni! Accept this group of mantras spoken for your purpose and be excited and make us supremely wealthy. O agni that is chosen by many! Give us great money. 
I have held this voice in my body from Indra, which is going to touch the truth. That speech has eight stages and nine headings. (1)
O flame and worshiped by human beings! When will your speed be dynamic? Humans accept you. 
 O agni! You are holy and keep the gods happy. You call the gods with your tongues 
I am the master of the nation, the giver of wealth, the best of the knowledge and the sacrificial things. The gods have held me in many places. My base is huge. I am involved in many beings. 
O king! Your other kings of homogeneous come on your call. Your messenger should roam freely like agni. May your wives and sons be happy with your recovery. You should be powerful enough to see many types of measures i.e. the things that have come in front of you. (3)
Oh, Usha! By inspiring each of the hymns to wealth, sending the adornments to us, and destroying the darkness, you must establish your wisdom for us to give us wealth. O Goddess! You protect us by your welfare means. 
I call the New Moon Goddess, who is not seen in Kuhu or moon, in this yagna or do homa with havi. May that Amavasya, which performs shoban karma, known deeds and invocation of shobhan, gives us various wealth through all and gives us a more wealthy, praiseworthy and brave son. (1)
O revolutionaries! Who was born first in the earth and in the sky, who is later? What is the reason for their creation? They hold all the substances of the world themselves and move around like wheels. 
When the agni moves on the earth without any effort, burning the forests, the stotas praise the flames of the agni in the martyloka. Fires that run as fast and uninterrupted as thieves are adorned in the desert. 
Bhava is the swami of Dyulok and the earth. They complete the wide space with their sharpness. Salutations to those trilokavalevas in the same direction in which they are enlightened and in whichever direction they are knowledgeable. (27)
 Sunlight rotates in the sky with its rays. These rays appear when the sun rises and disappear when it sets. The Sun illuminates space space exclusively. 
O agni! The host who describes your grace in front of others is famous everywhere because of your grace. He is endowed with food, horse, etc., and remains revered by opulence for a long time. (24)
O you of a wise mind, Rathaswami, ashvrinikumaro, who is quick to move and listen to the call quickly! You climbed on your horse and approached the deceitless Chyavan sage. O Ashwinikumaro who knows madhuvidya! You listen to my call. 
O highly ignited agni! You wake up with the best mind. Please give us money by your fastness spreading around. This is a very important agni! Bring the gods to our yajna. You are friends of the gods. Perform yajna of the gods favorably. 
In the huge, radiant and moving chariot of Indra, there are tears named Hari. Those horses shine in the sky. (4)
When the somras is drained, milk and curd have been added to it well. It is only after this that the purodash has been cooked and the barley has been roasted. The leader of the yajna, Ritaji, wearing food, praises Indra and goes close to the devas while speaking to the ukathas. 
The gods had discovered the deeds of the fledgling fire. This search was done in all four directions. Indra and other gods had come to the earth to find fire, so the earth had become equal to heaven. There was an increase in the water to hide the fire that was born due to the Yagya, which was born from the womb of water and illuminated by the praises of the Ritvijas. 
Indra's share, like the wealth of the victorious man, is greater than that of all the gods. The enemy cannot kill the host that Indra, the lord of the horse called Hari, makes powerful. 
O bird! Sing like a hymn that sings and say words like the Brahmaputra ritwik in the yajna. The horse capable of conception goes to the mare and says the same kind of word as it is. You speak good and virtuous words for us everywhere. 
O Indra! You have made your power powerful, so no one has ever been able to defeat you. 
Indra, the lord of the gods and the doer of human beings, received wealth through the great war and gave it to the Stotas. The meritorious stotas praise those deeds by chanting mantras in the host's house. 
Yarn for limb movement, nut for song, member for religion, capable of leadership, soft-spoken, slang for manoeuvre is suitable. For pleasure, compassion for women is suitable, kumari (veerangana) son for strong item ( from frenzy), charioteer for meritorious and garhia (fabricator) for patience. (6)
O wife of the knight! You have beautiful arms, beautiful fingers, vertebral buttocks and thick thighs. Why do you take our part in front of Taurus? Indra is the best of all. (8)
Oh, Usha! When you move with your light, it looks as bright as the sun. At that time, the chariot of Ashwinikumaras goes to the yagna of human beings. 
 Saraswati is the purifier, the nurturer and the giver of wealth with wisdom. May those goddesses of learning make our yajna a success. 
O Mon! You have been absorbed in the kalash for Indra Dev. You have been eclipsed in upyam for Brihad Dev. You are upyam (kalash). We worship you with the above mantras. This is the original place of Upyam Indra Dev. This upyam is the original place of Brahma Dev and Vishnu. We worship all of you gods with the said mantra in the yajna. We accept you with the desire for a better long life in the yajna. (22)
This friend, Stotao! You do intoxicating praises, expand the fields of agriculture, etc., make a boat crossing through the danda, decorate the tools like ploughs and gambling, etc., and bring the yajnapatra agni well. 
Virat Shakti held the light. Jyotirmay himself held the light. Please bless the surface of the earth. May he bless you with the light of life, soul, wealth, and paddy. Agni is your deva. Please be steadfast with the gods. You are as dumb as Angira. (24)
Let the wild violent animal wolf move away from our walking path. The thief should go farther than the wolf. Apart from snakes with teeth, rope-shaped and violence of others, other violent creatures should also move away from our transmission route. (2)
O Indra Dev of supreme opulence! Give us somayag lakshana karma or knowledge related to it in such a way that the father brings the desired results for the sons. This is enough! Teach us to travel to the world or give us the desired results. May we be filled with eternal life by your grace and experience the happiness of this world. (67)
The bones which are located obliquely and related to the vultures (the part between the tree and the thighs) should not leave your body while harming you and remaining healthy. (16)
Oh my friend and Varun! I've created this hymn for both of you and for the air. It is as bright as Mon. You come to our yajna, know our praise and protect us forever through your means of welfare. 
The sunlight has produced rashimians in the early hours. The rising sun becomes like gold. Due to the arrival of the sun in the sky, the agni is black and illuminated with its flames. 
We should always see the sun with upward, arun varna and auspicious speed only when they are moving in the sky. (36)
This is a Brahmin's abducted cow. It is going to destroy sons, grandsons etc. by dividing them. (1)
Indra who was born mainly to perform jyotishtom etc. yagya, the chief Indra whose bravery is famous for vritra hanan and the vajra raised by whom violence does violence all over, that Indra Dev should save me from sin. (6)
The bull carrying the chariot walks with both the axes of the chariot worded, just as the husband of two wives plays with them in order. Place the wooden structure on wooden wheels in such a way that the structure of the chariot is not unfounded. 
 O Indra! Your sons have prepared a lush someras. You're cool to drink it. You increase yourself and us from that. You make us gomati 
O gem made of tilak tree! You remove the act of destruction. You are going to destroy wars and fail thunderbolts. You hold on to kill an enemy more powerful than us and leave an enemy as powerful as us. (1)
You are the destroyer of the world's might and enemies. You depend on the earth and are the radiance of agni. I perform Vikram on earth and remove it from earth. The one who hates us or the one we hate should not survive. Give up life to him. (25)
O Dhanaswami Indra! We are for you only. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! We don't be unfavorable to the donors. We have no brothers among men other than you. O dear Indra! That's why the ancients called you the instigator of wealth. 
With my help, the animals eat food, see, breathe and listen to what is said. Those who don't believe me fade. O friend! Listen, I'll tell you something worth believing in. 
 O Mon! Please give us wonderful horses and welfare money for all. Give us happiness. 
O Indra! All the ancient and new sages make hymns for you. May your friendship be good to us. You always protect us by means of welfare. 
The mantradarstha people and the common man extend those Indras by the revered mantras of the Yajurveda, the singable mantras of the Samaveda and the hymns written in the Gayatri verses. 
O Indra called by many! You defeat the enemies. Your fast is the best. May we receive your donation in this yajna. You give us money with the right hand. You are the husband of the watery saritas. 
This powerful and aditiputra friend! He who serves you through salutations would have been the one who is a brave karmawala and a yajna-giver. The one who calls you again and again in a huff may the host be the master of the food and become the one to bear fruit. 
Hey Ritvijo! Prepare the bulls by feeding them grass, etc., plough the fields and prepare a chariot carrying grain easily. A drona water comes into the drink of animals. Fill the water-protecting water and the base of the human's refreshment, i.e., the well, at the time of famine surrounded by stones. 
O fever! You live with cold and staggering with cough. Your armaments are terrible. With these you go away from us. (10)
O agni! You go near to the gods to do angelic deeds. Don't do violence against the Psalms and their people. You perform the yajna of Saraswati, The Marudgana, Ashwinikumar, Jal and other gods to give us gems. 
On the occasion of yajna or when we get war, we invoke our sakha form Indra. (1)
May the north direction be kind to us. Som is the swami of this direction. The self-born serpent is its protector and the thunderbolt is the arrow that subdues its wicked. Our greetings to its swami Soma, the protector snake born himself and the vajra form arrow should be pleasing. The enemies that hinder us or the ones we hate. O Soma Adi Devo! We keep them in your molars for your devouring. (4)
I should not be the one who receives burnt food at the bottom of the batloi. The implication is that I get more food. Salutations to Rudra, the swami of agni and food, who provides food. O agni worthy of assembly! You protect my assembly i.e. the group of sons, friends, animals, etc. Those who are going to live in that group, O Agni Dev! Protect them. (5)
O vrithrashakta and shur indra! You're famous as the giver more in many hosts. You make us partakers of the wealth. 
Let the agni that perfects all the purusharthas come into our yajna. People wear agni in their homes. The people who carried the havya were the messengers of the agni gods. People respect agni as the one who completes the yagna. 
O testes or testicles! You do the precipitation i.e. the sale. You install the womb in the vagina. You walk up and display bravery. We receive you for the sake of the people. (8)
O Indra and Varuna! You forcibly opened the gates of water and inspired the present sun to move in the sky. When the intoxication of this intoxicating mon ascends, you water the waterless rivers and make our deeds successful. 
Oh, brave! Human-benevolent and blessed marutos ! Your color is like a glowing agni. 
O host! You are the one who touches others because of the milch and revered cow of the gods. May agni make you efficient and drink Indra Dev Som Rasa. After this, you drive the enemies out of the battlefield. (27)
O Indra! For the host who has made a new and pleasing hymn for you, do the work of ancient, true, great, and loving defense of all the minds. 
O agni! May all the Gods bless you with a lot of heart. May you bless us. You make us glorious. (53)
 O agni! Who among human beings is your real, guide, sacrificer and knower of your nature? Where is your shelter? 
Rudra Dev is constantly moving, he has a blue neck and a special type of red color. That's when people and women visit them. May their darshan be pleasant for us as well. (7)
We make the agni of the powerful yajna lawfully cultured. The grace of Yajna Dev makes our faces fragrant and ayushman us. Please please the Yagya Dev. (32)
 O Indra! The stones that crush Som are also calling you while speaking. O inhabitants of heaven! We are happy under your rule. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! You accept the praises made by your devotees. Bum, accept the hymns of the Som way we do today, so that we may gain food, strength and long life. 
O truthful Ashwinikumaro and Rudra! The leader of the yajna, bring the drinkable mon of the devas from your way by containing cows and horses. 
Oh, my friends! Speak beautiful praises to the agni that excites everyone, the bearer of the cama, and the destroyer of the asura. I am happy to dedicate the greetings and praises in the yagna to kampurak vaishvanar agni. 
Just as all living beings praise a mountain with tubers, roots and fruits at the time of famine, we praise one who is charitable, nutritious, full of cows and radiant. (5)
O Ashwinikumaro who wants to know the desire of the brothers! You become our follower bum the union of the two is extremely beautiful. Be the great givers to us, both of you. No one can despise you. Protect us from the best of the givers. 
 O Indra! You are rich, omniscient, performing hundreds of sacrifices, extraordinarily glorious. You give us money and make it prosperous. 
I call upon Varuna in the yagna, a friend of holy force and the destroyer of the violent,. They both work to bring water to the earth. 
The gem produced from the sea or sky is the gift of conch, that is, the conch is formed from the gem itself. This gem-made conch shines like the sun coming out of the clouds. This gem made of conch shells should save us from the fear of gods and asuras. (5)
I will meet Sakha Som who does not obstruct the stomach. Don't let the drunk mon do my violence. O Indra with tears called Hari! I beg that the piya hua mon stay in our stomach for eternity. 
O Sun and Indra! Your net is huge. You are the master of half of a thousand, five hundred soldiers, each of whom is as powerful as a hundred men. The powerful Indra challenged and covered the hundred thousand, ten thousand and one billion soldiers of demons with darkness with the help of his army. (7)
Som, who is emitting with the help of stones and worships the gods with mad streams, crosses the Dasapavitra made of sheep's hair and falls into the Dronakalash. Indra's friend, the radiant and the intoxicating Som, sifts through indra to deliver the item. 
In the yajna in which the devotees who wish for the gods are pleased, in which the leader of the earth squeezes somras every time for the sake of Indra, Indra should come first from heaven and his horses should also come in the same yajna to get the pleasure. 
O friend of the holy deeds and Varuna! You are blessed by many and have gained growth from food. Beautify you by the importance of wealth by huge praises. 
The devas get the same meaning as this and samvatsar and seasons also predict it. (8)
Surya nurtured yajna for Vishwakarma. Through that yajna, I am getting that glory. I accept your navel on the marrow of the folk. (14)
May the sages who compose nineteen richas get this sacrifice well. (16)
O Manu with maruts! May god, the leader who sits with you on a chariot, who sits with you on a chariot, is pleased, arrogant, sharp with sharp arrows, sharpening the arms and burning enemies like agni, may God come to war to help us. 
Just as the word velocity of the wind does, so does the word praiseable fire when it is burning. The yagna of fire should be performed on fertile earth. The havya and dansheel are revered everywhere like the flag of agni yajna. Just as people walk on the highway for happiness, so the fire that gives happiness to the hosts is served. 
Banaspati be peaceful for us. May Sabita Dev be a good fortune for us. May the kakup verses, senses and disciplined cow pleased to hold life and strength for us. (21)
May the great earth and heaven bless us with your own parts. Feed materials calm our thirst. (32)
We praisers call Upon Indra Dev to protect us when we receive all the unsweetened fruits and when we receive food. (7)
O act! Your light came close to the enemies. You make your dwelling place away from us in another place. You go across the ninety inaccessible rivers that can be crossed by boat and do not do our violence. (16)
 O Indra! You are going to kill enemies. You're going to see everyone. We call you by praise. You are angry, very rich and the guardian of gentlemen. You increase our glory in wars. 
The Agni dev immediately bestows wealth to such people who know the agni present in the Yajna, are the bearers of truth and offer praises for the purpose of Agni. 
 O Desertion! You are always happy with equal domination. You are bright, brave and fearless. You are adorned with Indra. 
O agni! By raising our hands up, we give a sufficient amount of liquid today. O meritorious! Be pleased with our penance and worship the gods by many hymns while protecting our yajna in the mind. 
O Indra and Vishnu! You had abolished the strong ninety-nine cities of Shambar Asura. You destroyed hundreds and thousands of heroes of the asura named Varchi. 
When the preparation for the war begins, the leaders call Indra in the war. O Shur, Indra who desires the nourishment and strength of man! Get us to the cowshed. 
O Savita Dev! Make us free of all the sin that we have committed not only because of ignorance, because of the pride of the weak or the mighty, but also to you, but also to the gods or to men. 
O Sun God! I establish what wants to be a barrier between us and you in sin, nightmares and misdeeds. (58)
O son of the force, the indestructible and the Jatveda Agni! By making the people great by defense, you are well illuminated in the sky instead of water. 
O Indra Dev! Just as parents protect their baby, you protect us. When you fight the enemy. Then the entire Shanru army gets scared. (67)
Hey, Gadiyo! When you go together like twins, the god-worshipers load a lot of havan materials on you. You know your place and stay there and be the place to be a beautiful place for our Mon. 
O Shatkratu 
May we get all the beneficial wealth through the hymns of your agne, such as the people and the enlightened, etc. 
 In the agni, the hosts observe fast. You are the best guide. They show the best path. Want to increase agni incomes. May agni receive our voice. 
 O agni! You are the all-perishta. We water you with ghee. You are amazing. We request you to invoke the gods. 
Indra is the master of these armies. Jupiter is in the south part of them and the yajnapayogi som is ahead of them. Let the deserters go before the enemies and the jaisheel devasenas. 
 O agni! We consider you to be rich, omniscient and Brahmin 
Indra can be subdued not by war, but by praise. They have enclosed the heavens and the earth in two places. Shobhankarma Indra holds Rodsi like the sun in the beautiful sky. 
These friendly hymns! Worship and praise indra who is called by mantras. They give us the best wisdom. 
O agni! You feed strong wood like a grass-eating horse. O lightless and bright agni! Your flames destroy the forests. 
If one offers to me with devotion a leaf, a flower, a fruit, or even water, I delightfully partake of that article offered with love by my devotee in pure consciousness.
O agni! We give the riches of the people with different means of protection and various grains. Give us sons who can defeat others by money, food and power. 
Hello Mother Earth to you. Hello to Mother Earth. May we receive your money. May we have your ability, brilliance and discipline. You are stable and stable. We come to your shelter for agriculture and our well-being. We come to your refuge to get wealth and nurture ourselves. (22)
The sages wore a cow in the leather of the dead cow and placed the calf in the mouth of the dead cow. He did this work through a mind that wished for divinity. The sages who necessarily receive the best praises on all the days conquer the enemies. 
O Indra! May your food that pleases all come to us soon. May our hymns be filled with many desires and praise you quickly. 
O agni! Satyavadi sages increase you every month, season and year. You give your divinity. Please illuminate the world and make you feel the four directions and sub-directions. (1)
Those who become great with the help of rudraputra maruts defeat the enemies of men in the struggle and with the help of their fellow maruts, they bring down the water from the clouds due to food, with the help of indra maruts, they become our protectors with the help of indra maruts. 
A female dog named Sarma, sent by indra and angira rishis to search for cows, had obtained food for her children. On being told by Sarma, Indra killed the asura and rescued the cows. At that time, the cows as well as the gods had made a happy word. 
O You who conquers the wealth of enemies, who has attained the desired path and gives us great wealth! You tap. 
This cow of a Brahmin, which is a sin form, creates harshness. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! Ushais destroy darkness. The psalms especially praise you. Savita Dev holds the high brightness and the agni ignited by the samidhas is praised. 
O God! Meet us with a scholar who teaches us the simple way and tells us the lost wealth. 
Pururva said, "Without you, I would not have been able to remove the arrow from the tarkas to win, nor could I swiftly snatch hundreds of cows from the enemies. My power is not illuminated in a stateless polity. Those who vibrate the enemy do not sing in my heroic struggle. 
Worldly people who wear a golden lamp in their necks, speak great hymns and desire food enhance the power of the space-powered electric agni by praises. 
O Krishna! Salutations to the one who donates the shalaka, to the master of the school, to the agni, to the man who roams around and also to you. (12)
O Earth! The place I dig for you will soon become the same as before. I am not able to fulfill your heart. (35)
O indra, the great man and the father of the gentlemen! It was only after you killed thousands of great demons that your strength grew greatly. 
Saraswati Devi, along with Ashwini Kumar, wisely obtained wealth and wealth from the demon Namuchi. He dedicated that wealth to Lord Indra. (67)
O Anjan Mani! Protect us from the sorrow caused by bad mantras related to the heart, from the sorrow of bad dreams, from the sin committed in the previous life, from the sin committed by another, from the corrupt mind and from the cruel eyes of others. (6)
Brahmins and Kshatriyas are the buttocks of the cow and the forces are its thighs. (9)
O Ashwinikumaro! You climb on the fast-moving chariot. These hymns, as bright as the sun, come before you. 
Cloud is his obesity and death is marrow i.e. fat. (18)
O Indra! We hosts are your friends. May we be happy in our homes. Protect the kings named Turvash and Yadu while giving happiness to the king named Atithigva. (8)
O agni! You are comprehensive, conductive, diverse, carrier and protector. Extremely conscious. You are praiseworthy and omniscient. (31)
After many births of spiritual practice, one who is endowed with knowledge surrenders unto me, knowing me to be all that is. Such a great soul is indeed very rare.
O agni! You are the basis of heaven. You were asked about paradise. You were asked about the earth. You were asked about your admission in medicines in the world. You are going to do good to all. We boldly ask you who you are. Protect us from violence during the day and at night.
Due to the head disease, tuberculosis comes to light from the ears and mouth, we completely remove that head disease of yours. (3)
In addition to the wealth of knowledge, give the swami, the cow and heaven that gives birth to the calf and always gives birth to the calf. (21)
The desert came with the help of horses with golden feet to bear the fruit of our yagna. 
 O Mon! Being refined, spreading light, seeing and wearing oz, you are rapidly filtered into the sieve. 
O Ashchinikumaro, the ruler of Charity! Give ghee dripping and fortifying food for the sake of the hymn. He had praised us for our happiness by wishing for wealth. 
O Indra! Destroy the male monster and also destroy the female demon who is doing violence to others by maya. The destructive gamers may be lying in the form of a torso and cannot see the rising sun. 
This is the wish-filled Ashwinikumaro! This praise and speech is for you. You accept this adornment. May all these yajnakarmas be received by you while wishing you. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O magnificent and beautiful agni! You should turn your friend Varuna towards us in the same way as the skillful in walking and the horses in the chariot carry the fast-moving wheel to the target' r. You have found a pleasing pleasure with the help of Varuna and Maruts. O glorious agni! Please our sons and grandsons and do us well. 
At the time varun and i boarded the boat. We had driven the boat in the middle of the ocean and we were on the boat floating on the water, at that time we played for pleasure on the boat swing. 
The demons named Anujishra, Pramrishant, Krivyad and Rerih, who are related to beauty-destroying diseases, I have destroyed all these violent people through the medicine of yellow mustard. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! What praise can make you happy? Who is capable of pleasing you? How can anyone who does not know your importance serve you? 
 O Indra! May Somers give you pleasure. O Vajradhari Indra! You shower money on us. You destroy the hatreds of Brahmins. 
Let us pronounce today the major word that can help us and the Devas defeat the asuras. O food eaters and worthy of yajna, the Panchjano! You consume our home. 
The reason for the thread that binds the gem is sun and this stubborn gem saves me from distractions. One of these i.e. Jangid Mani has been brought from forest and the other i.e. from hemp juice related to agriculture. (5)
The Jataveda, who defeats all sins by its importance, becomes a matter of praise in the Agni Yajnashala. Let them protect us from sins and sinned deeds and we may protect the people who are committed. 
Jal, Varuna, Vairoop and Vairaj followed him. (16)
May the Sun God be our friend while appearing in the sky. Savita Dev, who gives property, should be our friend. Savita Dev is the master of many types of wealth. He and Indra Dev are our friends. (2)
 Agni has ignited in the altar. The sun has risen in the sky. Usha is great. They make everyone happy with their brilliance. O AshwiniKumar! You plough your horse in the chariot, leave here. The sun is inspiring everyone to work differently. 
Through the same rock that kills all the insects, which is the rock of Indra, I kill the germs located inside the body in the same way as gram is drunk from the silbata. (1)
The one who says that your abode should be as it is, opens the door of desires for himself. (10)
O aschinikumaro! You removed the old age that pervaded the dilapidated Chyawan sage like armor. O you see! You extended the life of Chyavans abandoned by your sons and made them husbands of the daughters. 
When I decide not to gamble, I abandon the gambling friends who have come. But when the yellow dice thrown on the gambling board say the words, I go to that place as if the adulterous woman reaches the signage. 
When he went towards the south direction, he became Indra, describing his force as Annad. (3)
The owners of horses with the name Jute, the separation of joint matter and the leader, the bright deserts like the sun, are of water. They become powerful and fill the low lying places like wells, ponds, etc. with water and water the earth with sweet water while making words. 
O aschinikumaro! Let the fast-moving and load-carrying horses take you close to the Somrupi food. Your heart-like fast-moving chariot is left for adoptable, desirable and high-volume somrupi food. 
O sun! Let the people who live in water and the water-rich food come to you. You climb on the water and enter this nation with water, medicines and two-legged humans and four-legged animals, wearing Soma. (2)
O adhwaryu! Prepare an altarlike place like a living food for those who dwell on the yagna-vedi, who love your place and the fire with a bright light. Cover that pure, light-lit, bright and dark spot with beautiful kushas in such a way as one is covered with a cloth. 
O agni! Destroy our enemies to make us rich. Yours fast be excellent. You let us regulate the relationship of husband and wife and destroy the brightness of our enemies. 
Those who hold the entire world like the sun of agni, who live on the earth like a king with favorable friends, and the agni in front of which the world sits in such a way as the son before the father, they are pure deeds like the woman sanctioned by the agni anindita and the husband. 
If Indra, who raises his arms, kills enemies and destroys enemy cities, listens to my call, then we, who wish for wealth, will call Indra, the wealth owner and unlimited intelligence, through hymns. 
It's worth knowing! You bring us various forms and rich animals. 
Electricity is the flow of cow's tongue, deserts, teeth, Revati Nakshatra neck, Krittika Nakshatra shoulder and Dharma Karkat. (3)
O gods! This yajna is irrigated with ghee. The best is praiseworthy. In the yajna in which the good streams of sweet tasted ghee fall, please take such sweet offerings from the yajna to Devlok. (98)
 O agni! Destroy your sharply tortured demons everywhere 
O nirvati! You get up from here and run away. You have been here out of the desire of something. I welcome you away from my house. You are an auspicious heroine and have come here with the desire to create zero, but do not wander here. (19)
O sun! A group of deer holds you in the chariot. You walk in the waters and move for welfare. (21)
You are the father of the entire universe, of all moving and non-moving beings. You are the most deserving of worship and the supreme spiritual master. When there is none equal to you in all the three worlds, then who can possibly be greater than you, O possessor of incomparable power?
Bring Indra's ashcha named Hari to him for sompan in our beautiful fruit yagna. (2)
The meritorious Som moves between Dyava-Prithvi and inspires the waters of space to rain down, and sews up the North-Vedi with the enemies. The soms are mixed with the sattu of barley by the ritwijas, meet the fingers and protect the animals. 
Our somras preparers, the best-dressed and regularly make devadi a sompan, the ancient father wants to consume yama with yama and yama with them. Yama eats with those fathers according to your wishes. 
 O Atharvavedi Brahmin who sings Brihatsam, who goes through the path of light! Praise Savita Devta to remove the defect that you know from the yajna work. 
Indra strikes at the raised cupol of the Vrittar asura from the thunderbolt of the shatdharas and, showing his dominion, is pleased to seek a way to get food towards the stothas. 
Yajna and truth were born out of the ignited penance. After this, night and day arose. After this, the waters were born. 
Black night and bright days separate the earth and the sky by their instincts. Vaishnavars create like a agni of brightness and destroy the darkness with their light. 
 O Brahmanaspati! Please illuminate The Chamber, the son of Usija, who performed the Soma Yagya. 
O gambler! Don't play with the dice, considering my point of importance. Be very happy to accept the money you get from farming. Many cows and wives will be received from farming, Savita Swami has told me so. 
O agni! You were the adi rishis of the Angira tribe. You were a God himself and a benevolent friend of other gods. It is because of your karma that the Deserts were born who know their karma and whose weapons are bright. 
"My friend Maruto! The praises you have given me on this subject make me happy. I am a work-loving, a man of shobhan yagyas, many forms and your friend. 
Som is watered on the dashapavittra dripping the ancient rasa and produces the gods near him by making words. 
Oh, King! I have made you the swami of my nation. Be the authority among us and be firm and unwavering. All the people like you. Let the right of the state not be corrupted by you. 
This stotao! Those who roared your beautiful praise, with the word "rain-related" and the water-owners approached the cloud. They hold water and electricity and walk illuminating the sky. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Come to our yajna, because it has been mixed with squeezed thin somras curd. Whether it is ushakaal, whether the sun's rays have started shining, this squeezed mon is presented in the yagnabhoomi for Varuna and a friend to drink. 
 O Indra! Just as other paths meet from Rajpath, you receive donation grants of various types. 
 Somers has been purified from gold. It is divine and sacred. It is offered to the gods. The squeezed someras goes into the vessel just like a cowherd goes into a cow enclosure. 
Agni ramanas with his swiftness on the head of his parents, Dyava-Prithvivi. The yajnakars wear the brightness of the agni with shobhan shakti in the yajna. At the time of the fall of agni, the adorned hymns serve the body of the agni prevailing in the place of the yajna. 
O Indra! You quickly expand your body to drink someras. (4)
I have chanted mantras for you to destroy the subjects of all tuberculosis diseases called Visalpa (pain), Vidh (swelling), Vatikar and Valji (sandhi). (20)
The rulers of all, the eaters of the food in the form of disgust, the sons of Aditi and the danshil friends and Varuna serve the host. 
Hey Ritvijo! First of all, worship the Ashchinikumaras who are present in the morning in the yajna. They drink mons even before greedy and non-charitable demons. Ashwinikumar performs the yajna in the morning itself, so the ancient sages used to praise him. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! No one has been born in heaven or earth like you and will not be born. We call you, wanting horse, grain and go. 
Both the sky and the earth unanimously invoke Indra. Dulok calls Indra for Havi and Earth for rain. The commanders sitting in the same chariot call him are Indra. (8)
We call back the mind that has gone up to the distant mountains of yours. You live to inhabit this world. 
O Som, lord of the annas! Be the ones who increase the glorious wealth of the jhuloka and the earth. 
They are devoted to gods. O good-minded Adityas! May you be happy for all of us. May we have your ancient and superior wisdom. On the contrary, even those with intellectual intelligence should take interest in yajna bhava. Aditya accepts Som for Dev's happiness. (4)
 The sun is very bright. They drink a lot of somerous. They keep the hosts neutral. Make them long. Air transmits the sun's rays far away. From them they follow the subjects. Are able to be published in many ways. 
People send Mon to heaven, wearing all, the doer of many deeds, being vidhata and sanctified. 
O indra near to heaven and beholden! Our mons are complete with your purpose and the people worship you. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come from your place by a chariot of thousand forms. The meritorious son of the meritorious father, Vatsa Rishi, had spoken sweet words. 
All the gods like Indra etc. should leave the army of our enemies and come to us. May this sacrifice of ours be pleasing to the God who fascinates the army. O God! Protect your asura's great promise of victory. The sacrifice of this trishandhi had conquered the first asuras. (15)
Vishnu is praised due to heroic deeds. Vishnu is as terrible as a lion, roaming on the ground and located in the mountains. Those Vishnus should hear my praise and come here from far away countries. (2)
 We first praise the agni that gives all kinds of prosperity to the hosts, just as they are dedicated the character of Someras first of all. 
Soma, researched by Dashapavitra and without death, wishes to go to the paths and worlds while going from the place of keeping havya and does not get tired. 
The demons who defame me truthful because of their selfish interests and the sacrificial demons who blame me to the good man, Somdev give them to the snake or hold the sin in the lap of god. 
We remove the poison of angry serpents who live in a wet place, with black and white color, who stay away from water and defeat everyone, in the same way as the strings of bows and chariots are lowered. (6)
O Indra and Agni! Give us powerful food and fast-moving horses, so that we can deliver you. 
O friend of shobhan karma and Varun! Irrigate our goshala with milk and fill our houses with sweet juice. 
The insatiable crooked motions are located in the sky, rising up and burning themselves and holding bright clouds. Golden-colored rivers flow everywhere, spreading their importance everywhere. 
The man who knows the seven exploits of this bull in the form of barley etc. without decay, he gets sons, grandsons etc. children and heaven etc. Sapta Rishi knows this. (9)
The unsuccessful yogis, upon death, go to the abodes of the virtuous. After dwelling there for many ages, they are again reborn in the earth plane, into a family of pious and prosperous people. Else, if they had developed dispassion due to long practice of Yog, they are born into a family endowed with divine wisdom. Such a birth is very difficult to attain in this world.
Demons do not hide this golden wealth. Even vampires do not hide this golden wealth. This golden first born deities are the ode, the Dakshavanshi Brahmins who hold it as a golden ornament, the gods also give longevity to humans. (51)
O air! In the yajnas that get to heaven, first of all, drink the squeezed somers. Bum be the first mon drinker. 
How many are there in this yajna? How many letters are there in this yajna? How many (types) are there? How many (types) are there? You know yajna (vidya) in a special way. We want to know from you how many yagyas are performed in each season. (57)
O agni! You expand the sky by your rays with the same new brightness as the ancient. 
The sadhya deity is holding a stick of the trap and attacking the enemies with force. Of the remaining three sticks of the trap, one has been picked up by Rudra, the other by Vasu and the third by Aditya. (12)
Man enjoys the happiness of all the worlds by giving vasha cow to Brahmins. Truth, knowledge and tenacity are dependent in Vasagi. (33)
May Indra, who protects, drive away our enemies from a distance. While living in the graceful intellect of Indra, worthy of fame, let us all get his auspicious feeling. (7)
O great Indra! The joy of you and the host who serves you is adorned with yajna. You come quickly to the yagna and your horses are powerful. The sama sung for you is dustar by the demons. Your divine yajna is not attainable by humans. 
The agni indradi, served with hymns grown up with hugs, goes briskly to meet the gods. Those who call the praiseworthy gods take the best in the sacrificial pots and the agni containing the gods to the gods. 
The word “Sat” means eternal existence and goodness. O Arjun, it is also used to describe an auspicious action. Being established in the performance of sacrifice, penance, and charity, is also described by the word “Sat.” And so any act for such purposes is named “Sat.”
When will they attack those who do not perform Indra Yajna and chastise them by attacking them and when will we hear the prayers of the psalmists? (5)
The root consciousness is the father of the cloud arrow that nourishes all and the cloud that holds all is the father of the arrow and the earth with all the elements is the mother of this arrow. This means that both the cloud and the earth produce arrows, that is, power. That's what we know. (1)
O god of all and joy! Listen to the praise of me and the dying man and come to this yajna. O god of heaven! You want to praise the wise who made such a host great, whose protector is none other than you. 
We have heard two ways for men to go. The first is Pitru Marg and the second is Dev Marg. Both these routes have caused inflammation of the world. Organisms have been formed by the coincidence of parents. (47)
O Indra! Destroy the demons who interfere with the yajna, cut off their middle part and finish the upper part. Throw away the walking monster. Throw an angry weapon at the demon who hates the Brahmins. 
We have obtained the meritorious, pure-strength, the best brothers from birth, the happy ones of heaven and the beautiful agni for the work of yajna from within the waters of the rivers flowing. 
O Indra! At the time when you destroyed the seven cities that had been fortified throughout the year, you gladly oppressed the people who lived there and asked for forgiveness. O unsigned Indra! You gave the flowing water and violated the vrithra for the welfare of the young king Purukutsa. 
 O agni! You should wear nutritious food and wealth. You give us strength and superior children and make us pure. 
Hey Ritvijo! Do the home of the extremely sweet havi for Swami Yama. Greetings are given to our ancestor sages who have made this path before. 
O Swami of Wealth Indra! You are capable of punishing enemies. Give the same power to our thousands of horses, cows and shushris. (2)
O Siniwali and Saraswati! Make my womb strong. May Ashwinikumar, who wears a garland of flowers, protect my womb. (3)
O scholarly fire! The child of Kanva calls you and praises your deeds. You come with the gods. 
The agni which is distinguished by the form of the yajna is established by the gods and due to which humans reside in the sunland, the agni which has established the bright radiance of the gods in the three worlds and the rays that destroy darkness from which it has established in the moon,  The sun and moon constantly worship such a bright agni. (35)
Those who know me as the governing principle of the adhibhūta (field of matter) and the adhidaiva (the celestial gods), and as adhiyajña (the Lord all sacrificial performances), such enlightened souls are in full consciousness of me even at the time of death.
The radiance that is hidden in this dynamic lunar system is the rays of the sun, know that. 
That Varun Dev is agni in the evening and becomes a friend in the morning. He lives in space as Savita and in heaven as Indra. The one who commits the crime of such an angry God and commits violence against the learned Brahmin, O Rohit Dev! You vibrate and make it weak and tie it in your loop. (13)
 O Indra! You have many names. Many people praise you. Wherever you come, we pray to you with the will of cows. 
The agni messengers who invoke the gods walk in the middle of the earth and sky knowing the steps of the work and heaven. 
O God! By this mantra, motivate the pigeon to go away from our house. We should feed the cows all over the earth while getting food and getting it. We should wash the nooks of the pigeon's claws well and that pigeon should leave the food of our kitchen and become superior among the birds and fly. (1)
The sages are of various nature and angira are of serious karma. The angiras of the son of agni are born on all sides. 
He who knows this becomes the favorite abode of Vairupa, Vairaj, Jal and King Varuna. (18)
O universe! Protect me with all your nourishing power. This havi is well done havan. (5)
O Maruto! Come to us quickly at the time we call you from heaven, wishing for your happiness. 
O Shataudana Gau! May your head, your mouth, your two ears and your chin - all these organs give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (13)
He was farewell from his father's house with Vedamantras. She was welcomed in the husband's house only with mantras. The cloth of the husband's house made pure by mantras welfares the bride. (7)
O Indra! White horses join the right side of your chariot. You who ride on those ascetics are worthy of greeting and glorious by the gods. (14)
The oshdis interact with King Mon like this- "O King! We save the one whom the Stota Brahmin treats." 
Aspirants may restrain the senses from their objects of enjoyment, but the taste for the sense objects remains. However, even this taste ceases for those who realizes the Supreme.
May the goddess of sin, the goddess of suffering to others, and the demons end the real karma fruit of this enemy of mine with untrue fruit. The meaning is that the act of action done by my enemy should not be fruitful. Its fruit is the opposite. God inspired by Indra should destroy the home deeds of this enemy. The deeds that this enemy does to kill us should not be prosperous and fruitful. (2)
Deluded by the three modes of Maya, the people in this world are unable to know me, the imperishable and eternal.
May Indra, the swami of the marutas, protect me from the east direction. Just as the earth found in the arms protects the heaven above, in the same way we worship the creators of the worlds and paths through yajna. O God! You become the participant in this yajna. (25)
 O Mon! You are pure and worthy of praise. You shower your juice on us just as the gods shower food and blessings for us. 
O jewel! Destroy an enemy with an evil heart. You destroy the terrible person. Destroy those who commit violence etc. sin. O jewel with a thousand eyes! Destroy those enemies with your unfavorable intellect. O warrior! You are going to protect in all ways. (3)
By means of power, they are so heroic and cover the dyava-prithvi with their fast. Just as the yajman performing the yajna sits in his house, the green-colored Som sits in his kalash. 
The temple of Vishnu is illuminated by the rays of the sun. That dham is omnipresent. We wish to get that best place of Vishnu. You give proper money and nutrition to Brahmins and Kshatriyas etc. You give wealth and children to Brahmins, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas. (3)
Among the deities, who perform yajna from time to time, i.e., Ritwij and those who are worthy of yajna, are given havi as part of both. All the great gods should come to this yajna with their wives, Indrani, etc. and get satisfied (6)
We worship the agni that dwells all over the world, the great, the going everywhere, the enlarged body, the evil and visible agni by the human paradises. 
In ancient times, a Brahmin named Shakdhum was made a king like the moon by the stars. I, Bhadra, had given this Shakdhum Brahmin a welfare time in ancient times so that he got ownership of nakshatra mandal. (1)
Usha walks facing west like a brother's sister and the husband climbs into the sky to get wealth as a light as a woman. Usha flaunts her teeth with humour wearing beautiful clothes like the wife who pleases her husband. 
Ushija's son Rishishwa, with the help of Indra's praises, broke vipru's cowshed by Vajra. When Someras squeeze and yajnakar Ushij praised, Indra went ahead and defeated the enemy cities with his form. 
 O Indra! After drinking somers, make us see your sumatis. Don't turn away from us. Please don't give this knowledge to the wicked. This is our request to you. 
We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall face down. (33)
You are the destroyer of the world's might and enemies. You are dependent on space and the fastest of the world. I show might in space and drive him away from space. The one who hates us or the one we hate should not survive. Give up life from him. (26)
May Indra, the most elaborate, revered, called by many and having many abodes, give us welfare in this yajna. O Indra with horses called Hari! Please our children, do not do our violence and do not forsake us. 
The chief and revered hosts come to the yagnakam beautiful Indra. In the midst of the devas, it was Manu, the guardian of the people, who had received the door to attain Indra. 
The Somdevs squeezed for the devas fall on the dashapavitra to gain entry into the bodies. 
Just as the horse goes on a walkable path, so may Usha Devi come to our yagna. Like the fast-moving horses bring the chariot, so should usha bhaga be brought before us. 
O Jupiter! You go to all the gods for my welfare. You are Indra with friends, Varuna, Pusha, Adityas and Vasus. You rain water for King Shantanu. 
O working men! You take pleasant Indra in your heart, you inspire you to get food. You produce a son to protect you and invoke Indra to drink someras. (2)
You do not know the Vishwakarma who created all those beings. Your heart does not have the ability to know him. People do all sorts of things covered with ignorance. They eat and praise a variety of things and try to go to heaven. 
The host who performs the ritual separating the food items and giving dakshina, he exudes. (6)
O agni! You warn and wake up the host! You sit on a high seat. You give us good luck. You give us your sub-power and we Brahmins your glory. Please recognise us. (2)
A strong food is requested from agni. The agni blessed Kanva, protected our friends, and protected the sage of the revered guests.
O Ashwinikumaro! Because of you, the somras have been squeezed, the soft kushs have been laid, the hymn, wishing the woman, praises with folded hands and the stones are removing the somras while pervading you. 
Pawman Som, the grandson of water, moves from space to kalash, rising in a high place. 
East, West, North, South and the intermediate directions of these - these five jatis and Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Shudras and Nishads - should increase the wealth of this host in the same way that rainwater moves the water lying in the flow from one place to another. (3)
 O Indra! Just as thirsty gaur deer go to a pond full of water, so you come to the entire yagna filled with our prayers. Come to the yagna of Kanva as soon as possible. Be happy to drink someras. 
The Brahmin wife was given the truth by gods, humans and kings. (10)
The fast-moving deserters are striving in wars like the knights, the war-seekers and the agnostic men. The world is afraid of the leaders of rain, etc., and the furious maruts. 
Sun, Varuna, Vayu, Chandra and you i.e. Jaldevi - these gods are born from Brahma. He has said about the crime committed by brahmins. (1)
This drunk, successful and willing to protect Mon binds me to the yagnakarmas in such a way that the badhiya bull is tied to the chariot by rope rope ropes. Mon protect me from corrupt character and remove me from adultery. 
O Vishwakarma! You were born before brahmins. Knowing this importance of yours, I give you strength to protect me. May this havi given to you by me give me a long life till old age and I live among my children. (1)
I, who study the Vedas or chant Gayatri, have praised Savitri, the one who fulfills desires, redeems sins and the mother of the Vedas. May Savitri, who purifies Brahmins, inspire us. May savitri devi give me life, life, people, animals, fame and brahm and go to brahma lok. (1)
O hundred sages! Praise this chariot, which reinforces the former hymns by welfare hymns, those who invoke the adornment in yajna, those who are anointed by many, the protectors of all, those who are ahead of wars, those who are ahead of all, those who hate enemies and are sinless. 
O Shura, Indra, worthy of being attained by mantras and possessing the above qualities! The new sages praise you and try to bind your ancient and excellent works with mantra words. We worship You the Great through the things we know. 
O mighty Ashwinikumaro! You drink somras together with all the intellects, all beings, doloka, earth, mountains, usha and sun. 
O Indra with strange light! Squeezed by the fingers of the sages, the eternally pure this somras is doing your wish. You come to this yajna. 
God is illuminated in the form of the sun by being united with Savita Dev with agni. Swaha to the sun with agni. Savita Dev is adorned in the form of the sun. (15)
Salutations to Indra who cut off the wings and stabilized the mountains, invoked water and killed the great asura. (12)
O beautified Mon! Accept our greetings in the sky, the earth, the mountains, the herbs, and the waters, without anger at the present being bright with its brightness. 
The bright hribhu.o! Give us money today. Be our protectors by being equally pleased with all of you. The famous Ribhu give us food. Oh, God! You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
O agni! You come to this yagna of ours as a great, calm and guest-like worshiper. O knowledgeable agni! Destroy all your enemies and take away the wealth of those who are hostile. 
Indra, Varuna, Agni, Aryama and Savita - the five kamarshi devas in the sky - may take our admirable hymns together to the devas and return. O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
O Ashvo! You are strong. Brahmins, knowers of truth, make us rich. Please nurture us. Strong horses should drink sweet juice and get tired and please move forward from the Devayan path. (18)
O agni! You are as iconic as it happens. You publish your folk. You perform yajna. You are going to do the best (good) work. You are the basic place of good karma. You are supposed to satisfy the gods like gods. Please perform the yajna. You should hold money and life for the host. (35)
Rigveda is the form of speech. We get him. Yajurveda is the form of the mind. We get him. Samaveda is the form of life. We get him. We attain the power of the eyes. We achieve the power of the ears. Please establish speech, life and apana with your energy from us. (1)
 O Mon! Your juice is strong. The streams of Someras are adorned in Vegvati and Dronalash, which is going to have a favorable effect on the gods. 
Hey Aditi! Follow us from all sides. Do not kill our son in the shallow and painful water of the sons. 
 O Mon! Your juice is interesting and has a green aura. You kill haters like the sun kills darkness with its rays. Your juice is shining. The stream of you on the sieve is illuminating. Your stream is adorned all over the back. You are brighter and better than the seven rays emanating from your seven mouths. 
O agni, the one who calls the gods and the seekers of force! Lord of food, we choose you and praise you with words of praise as the best in the yagnas. 
The brightness of the agni by which Varuna, Mitra, Aryama, Ashwinikumar and Bhaga give light to everyone. The best of those who know the psalms by shakti, we are protected by Indra and serve the same brightness of agni. 
Time desired to create this world. Time becomes the force and the Supreme Soul holds Brahma. (9)
 O Indra! Your donation is unparalleled. You give us 
O host! May the water coming from the Himwan Mountains, the water of the springs and the water flowing all the time be pleasing to you. May the rain water also be beneficial for you. I sacrifice in the agni of havi with hatred, ksheer, etc. for the purpose of you gods. (1)
Born from heaven, usha, the daughter of heaven, enlightens the human beings, wiping out darkness for our welfare. It is seen despised by bright rays at the end of the night with bright stars and darkness. 
Humbleness; freedom from hypocrisy; non-violence; forgiveness; simplicity; service of the Guru; cleanliness of body and mind; steadfastness; and self-control; dispassion toward the objects of the senses; absence of egotism; keeping in mind the evils of birth, disease, old age, and death; non-attachment; absence of clinging to spouse, children, home, and so on; even-mindedness amidst desired and undesired events in life; constant and exclusive devotion toward me; an inclination for solitary places and an aversion for mundane society; constancy in spiritual knowledge; and philosophical pursuit of the Absolute Truth—all these I declare to be knowledge, and what is contrary to it, I call ignorance.
The kumari of kirat jati searches for sarpo's medicine with a spade. She digs medicine with gold shovels on the peaks of the mountains. (14)
The agni that irrigates the earth with the rain of the sky, bright like gold, sky-going, who makes people conscious with its movements, the sustainer like water, the father of all and the agni that pervades the earth and the sky, has been worn in the peopleless yagyashala. 
O Born in the yajna period, the bright and brave Indra! We will truly praise you through mantras and win over enemies with your help. 
O Indra! The sharp intoxicating somras has been squeezed. You come to our yajna, drink somers and serve him with pleasure. 
The satisfactory actions of the Vaishvanar Agni bring great wealth, this is true, because he gives wealth to the hosts with the desire of the yajnadi shobhan karma. Fire has been born with the glorious parents, making the earth and the sky great. 
The Guru said to his disciple in this way, "O Devdatta! The sages who performed the previous rituals had the ashes.... That is, if you consume odan with the help of knees with bones, if you consume odan with the help of a knee with a different i.e. cosmic bone, then your knees will dry up." I have consumed this odan with the help of Dev's knees. He has been taken to where he should have gone. This odan is full of all the organs, with all the joints and with the whole body, by this method, the one who knows how to consume odan is full of all the organs, with all the joints and with the whole body, he is established in the virtuous worlds of heaven etc. (14)
O Life God! You dwell in the bodies of all the people in such a way that the Father covers the beloved Son with His garment. Prana is the master of all those who breathe or do not breathe. (10)
O Brahmanaspati and O Jataveda Agni! Like a tiger, two teeth that are located in the top row with an additional downward face, they want to eat the parents. Those teeth should be good for the parents. (1)
O Indra and Agni! Just as you were called by the scholars in the past, so I call you for protection and sompan. 
O Ushadevi! You be illuminated with the best rays in front of us while increasing our age. Hey sab sabki kamaniyya usha! Make light for us, holding wealth with food, cows, horses and chariots. 
The somras mentioned earlier have gathered to please the mighty Indra. Through this, Indra's wide abdomen is filled like the ocean. 
As soon as the agni that takes over the enemy's wealth in the anti-enemy and struggle is created, let all the people praise them. 
O men who want harmony! I perform such a sacrificial deed, so that your mind is full of proper knowledge. Through the penance of the God named Bhaga, which is produced by labor, I make you of equal knowledge. (2)
O Lord of wealth Indra! We're all full of money in wars. Together with your auxiliary maruts with the same oj as the jhullok, you defeat the enemies. We keep you on loving the night and day for many years. 
O Indra Dev! O wind! This somers has come (brought) to put both of you to use. You consume it. O Mon! You have to take indra dev in kalash. That's your native place. You have to take in the urn for air. The book is your native place. We accept you for the happiness of both of them. (8)
O Dravida! Let the horses by which you come be satisfied. O lord of the forests! Be firm while you don't do violence to anyone. O enemy- loser! You come to the yajna of Neshta and drink som with the seasons. 
 O Mon! After coming from heaven to earth, you become more knowledgeable, glorious, attractive and capable. 
Swaha for chaitra month. Swaha for Vaishakh month. Swaha for Jyeshtha month. Swaha for Ashadha month. Swaha for sawan month. Swaha for Bhadon month. Swaha for Ashwin month. Swaha for Kartik month. Swaha for Agahan month. Swaha for Paush month. Swaha for Falgun month. Swaha for balance for adhimas. (31)
I dig this extremely powerful and latarupini infusion. Through this, the love of the husband is found by causing suffering to the saut. 
I am the pure fragrance of the Earth, and the brilliance in fire. I am the life-force in all beings, and the penance of the ascetics.
 O agni! You are immortal. You are the elixir form on earth. You are enjoyable by making the yajna a success. We call you again and again to donate. 
O fire! You are being called to sompan in this beautiful yajna, so you come with the marudgans. 
Hundreds of people perform yagna to get the divinity and beauty of the gods. By calling the gods in the yajna, they perform the Adhwaryu Yagya. They attain their abode. (56)
Like the one who performs fire sacrifices with inexhaustible effulgence, the ornaments of the house of yajna, like a wife sitting in the house, bright like the sun when it shines with a strange brilliance, are as brilliant as a golden chariot among the subjects and are effective in battle. 
Warrior Indra makes great war with the self-help force that purifies everyone for the welfare of his devotees. At the time when Indra throws the means of violation on the thunderous clouds. At that time, everyone reveres the bright Indra by saying powerful. 
We praised all Adityas, all Maruts, Indra, Agni and Ashwini Kumars. Oh gods! You protect us with your welfare. 
Towards the south, the gods made the two months of summer its protector and appointed Yajnayagyya and Vamdevya as its ritualists. (5)
The substances brought by injuring the enemies and the living substances are ours. Let us take control of the enemy's army. (1)
O agni! The praise that is the cause of wealth desires you, because because of you the host is able to perform the yajna for the sake of the gods. Angira is the best praiseor and the meritorious bharadwaj recites the verses in the yajna. 
O Indra and Agni! The glory of your birth is true and praiseworthy. You're both a father. You're both twin brothers. The vast earth is your mother. 
In the interest of human beings and the rainers attained the growth among the worthy woman i.e. the jara group of vayu yajna called Sarswan. They give powerful offspring to the hosts who wear the havan and perform the rites of the body for their welfare. 
O Agni and Vishnu! Drink the great, great secret, and dripping ghrit called both of you. Agni and Vishnu wear gems in every yagyashala. May the tongue of both of you come out and get the ghrit put in the havan. (1)
O agni which is attained by the increase due to the Jataveda and the ahutis! At the time of the day's hiding, you consume a havi called purodash. 
Water appeared from them and they appeared from water. (9)
O Swami! Stop my enemies and those who gather armies against me. Stop all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (3)
The insignificant men are describing the mighty of god and the quick-moving assh. Such think-hearted friends, Varun Aryama, Age, Indra, Rybhuksha and Air, do not condemn us. 
O Sun God! You travel in many ways in these sky, earth and space, looking at all beings with grace and creating night and day. (22)
The young woman's mother kept Kumar in the cave when he was injured while walking on the way, did not give it to his father, people do not see his disguised form, but they see him kept in an inconsolable place. 
 O Indra! You are adorned like a cow that is very milking, whose gait is praiseworthy, which is easily milkable, which has special symptoms, from whose breasts many streams of milk flow. You come soon. 
O masters of karmaroop money! Give us the things we want day and night through our sacrificial deeds. Your donation and yours will never end. 
I am a disloyal and an enemy abuser. I conquer and defeat my enemies. Just as the wealth of the unstable minded takes away by others, so I put an end to the speed of other women. 
Herbs and crops, animal groups originating in the past and born in the future, day and night, samvatsar with seasons - all these originated from celibacy. (20)
O God of Water! Grieve those who hate us or those we hate with the power you have to grieve others. (4)
I rescue you from the loop in which Savita has tied you to Varuna. O wife! I simplify this vast path of folk with you. (58)
Just as no one else can find the movement of the sun, so those whose speed is unattainable to others, who are very active with their dynamic friends and maruts, who are the harnesses and exploiters of enemies in all battles, be our protectors with the help of Indra Maruts. 
O Maruto! Friends, Varuna and Aryama protect this yajna from condemnation and destroy the guilty substances of the yajna. Due to these, the achyuta and pole water of the cloud drips at time. Friends protect the world from the excess of water. 
 When Indra defeated the entire army of jealous demons, then you broke the head of namuchi rakshasa with the foam of water. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Give the desired pleasure to me to the hymn who both praise me with passion by your extreme wisdom. The admirable happiness you have given passes all over the earth. 
We always call the prajapakarta, the one who always behaves and the beloved fire of the world through the calling mantras. 
One who knows Aditya as Kshatra and Dyulok as Indra gets the senses. (10)
O subduer of enemies, the saintly kings thus received this science of Yog in a continuous tradition. But with the long passage of time, it was lost to the world.
O mighty Indra! When the Somras go to Nichud, I give you somers to drink. You be satisfied and drink intoxicating somras. 
O agni! You pierce those arrows in the hearts of demons by straightening your arrows through our sacrifices and intensifying their fruits through our praises. After this, break the arms of the demons raised for our slaughter. (6)
The goddess is passionate, wealth-rich, the one who increases Indra Dev, removes hatreds and sins. Please hold money for the host. Teach the host to get money. The host should perform yajna for all this. (15)
All the armies together make the Shanrupabhavakata and the leader of all, Indra, powerful by the yoke, etc., and the stotas produce the sun form Indra to make their yajna light. The stotas, strong, oriented through karma, praise the fierce, very bright, progressive and fast-paced Indra to gain wealth. 
The gods named Vishwai Dev immersed Kamadeva in the water with his wife Aadhi i.e. anxiety, because he was suffering in his disconnection. O woman! I am for you torment that Cupid with the power of Varuna, the swami of water. (2)
The spiritually-minded, who eat food that is first offered in sacrifice, are released from all kinds of sin. Others, who cook food for their own enjoyment, verily eat only sin.
Our navel and mind should be equipped with specific knowledge. Our anus be balanced. May our testes be blissful. May our women's limbs be fortunate. We should follow dharma with thighs, feet. Let us be as kings in society. (9)
Dyawa and Earth are the overswamis of donors. May they protect me in Vedokta, Paurohitya Karma, Prestige, Resolve, Devavan Karma and Blessings. (3)
 O agni! You protect us from all demonic and selfish tendencies. You are our benefactor. You are our desired god. We are in your shelter. 
They alone truly see who understand that all actions (of the body) are performed by material nature, while the embodied soul actually does nothing.
O Indra! You become greater than Hueloka by your own force. The land of death cannot permeate you. You wish to bear our food. 
If you have eaten Brahmaodana in front of you, then life will forsake you. Scholars tell the glory of such an odan eater. (28)
Were the rays of the glory of the Divine, which created the sky, etc., slanted, downwards or upwards? The beings possessing seeds of karma and the great sky etc. were enjoyable. At that time the food was abject and the beings were excellent. 
O agni! I don't have a cow. I don't even have a wood-cutting axe. Such a meansless I hold you. 
Maharishi, the thinker of the Vedas, says to each other, "O Devdatta! You have eaten this odan in front of you or in front of the soul. (26)
People are satisfied by food produced by desert rain and through water. Those who feed the birds with fat, those who roam as gods of the dead clouds, they save us from sin. (5)
I make myself fortunate through a god with the shape of cow and buffalo hooves. I make myself fortunate through Indra satisfied with my service. Let our enemies move away from us and get a bad condition. (1)
O thunderbolt Indra! You've done that work. You became a unique warrior and had the force of shushna with your thunderbolt. You had killed Krishna Asura with your weapons facing downwards for the welfare of Rajarshi Kuts and got the songs of enemies with your power. 
O agni! Mix the paths of yajna i.e. havi with honey and taste them with your beaut-flame-like tongue. You upgrade our praises and yajna by beautiful emotions and make our yajna worthy of the part of the gods. 
O Maruto! With the kind heart with which you give the seeds of unsustainable food grains for our sons and grandsons, give us the seeds of food with the same heart. We ask you for full age and lucky money. 
The water that is like Taurus in the waters has been liberated and the divine agnis have been liberated. (1)
Swaha for agni. Swaha for Mon. Swaha for pleasure. Swaha for Savita. Swaha for air. Swaha for Vishnu. Swaha for Indra. Swaha for Jupiter. Swaha for a friend. Swaha for Barun. (6)
 Som is going to reside in the best yajna. Twenty-one cows regularly give pure milk for these. The waters of the four worlds flow welfarely to be pure milk. 
As soon as human beings are in the morning, they make you messengers and perform yajna. O agni! In the Devgan Yagya, you are ignited by ghrita and increase you for worship. 
The second of this is the vyan space. (2)
O Aditya means Aditi's son Surya! You are riding a boat with the characteristics of a chariot. That boat is a hundred sticks. The purpose of your climbing on that boat is the welfare of all. Ride on this kind of boat and take me through many spiritual, metaphysical and supernatural obstacles and cross the paths between night and day. (25)
The powerful and intoxicating som irrigates Indra, who lives in the glorious dulok, who rises the mountains and destroys the enemy cities. The singing sings give the best milk filled in their raised breasts to Indra with their glory. 
Oh, my father! The mind of the great gods is in you. Indra killed Vrithra only by taking the help of your defense and wisdom. 
O Jathaveda! Your importance is greater than the sky and you are the king of the human beings. You gave the wealth abducted by the asuras to the gods by snatching it by war. 
The kind of narmada mark that the gods and asuras made with weapons in the ears of animals, humans also made a chill in the same way. Ashwinikumar make a similar chill for the unlimited growth of cows. (3)
 O Indra! You are self-powered. You have won the means of enjoyment from strong demons. Protect your worshippers with this money. Those who invite or remember you again and again, make them rich. 
O deserters! Your move throws away all the substance. Just as the old and weak king trembles with the fear of the enemy, so the earth trembles by your walking. 
O praiseworthy and vegetative Mon! If you wish for life-giving medicine for us hosts, we can be deathless. 
Let our back be like a nation. Stomach, both shoulders, neck, both hips, both thighs, waist, knees etc. (8)
Those who are quick to get happiness from the God and nature of Indra Dharma, come here to get happiness and with their power, weaken our enemies in all ways who want to suppress us. (1)
O Maruto! The idea of giving space to your forcible movement has gone up from the vast space of the folk. In that space, the multi-powerful and the leader deserts hold a glow in their bodies. 
The son born in Jyeshtha Nakshatra is the hanta of father, elder brother etc. The son born in the original nakshatra commits violence of the entire clan. Therefore, protect this Kumar from the meverance of the child done by Yama. For a long life of living for a hundred years, all sins should go away from this Kumar. (2)
Hey Anjan! Friends Dev and Varun Dev followed you to the back land and later went to heaven. You bring them to consume pleasures. (10)
O agni! You know our great welfare works. We give you great wealth to the psalms. O son of strength, agni! With that money, let us be happy to be without decay, full age and with beautiful sons and grandsons. 
Protect us from the saraswati cynics who complete the vast realms, space and sky with their brightness. 
At this time, the great pujya, standing in front of her face, wearing gold ornaments and donated to me by King Prithusrava, is being brought before me by the son of Ashwa, that is, in front of me. 
You come like a bowing mother. (8)
The king protects the nation with the tenacity of celibacy. Acharya also wants to make his disciple like him through the rule of celibacy. (17)
O Indra! This praise that is very new, respectful and more joyful, with the yajnakamas that take place in different seasons, goes to you. 
The sage, a scholar named Avasyu, had obtained horses moving at the speed of wind and properly attached to the chariot. O Indra! All the friends of The Avasyu, the Psalms, increased your strength by their praises. 
Those who call upon the gods and are happy, the agni that gives food to men, the same agni receives the first vessels of the intoxicating somras. 
Whatever is near or far from the path of bhava and sharva, it is in the possession of those who are known by all, who are known by all, and skilled in throwing arrows, who are the two-legged men of this world and the masters of four-legged animals, may they save us from sin. (2)
O Indra! You killed the asuras named Karanj and Parnaya with a sharp and hostile weapon to help the king named Atishtgava. The king named Rijishwan had surrounded a hundred cities of the Vangrid Asuras from all sides. You alone destroyed those cities. 
O bright friend and Varun! The Angiragotrian sage was performing yajna, at that time Yama went with the desire to get a cow. Willing to praise him, the Brahmin Nabhanedisht loved him very much, his yajna should be completed and he should be overcome. 
O Ashwini Kumaro with a good and bright ness! O Swami, the ruler of day and night! Protect us. Save us from the violence of agni monsters etc. who increase the water of the clouds. O God of Tvashta! Increase us to get all the fruits. (3)
Cupid was born first. God, father and man cannot equate him. For this reason, you are superior to all and great in the whole world. I salute you. (19)
Indra drank somras and agni drank somras. Devgan was satisfied by drinking somras. Stay in the yajnashala to drink the varan somras. Just as the cows run to meet the calf, the ukth mantras praise Varuna. 
O Indra! Fulfill this wealth of ours with cows, horses and bright wealth. Make us famous by these properties. Kushikgotriya rishis, who are seekers of heavenly happiness and skilled in yajnakarma, have praised this through mantras. 
O agni! Please make us pure with the form of Brahman that you expand in the middle of your holy form. (41)
O agni! You sit here. We ignite you with samidha with the desire of yajna and meaning. You are the forward. Please call your ancestors to receive the havan. (70)
May Swami Vishnu give the fruits of well-done penances. This sacrifice should be best for Vishnu. (7)
O serpent named Nyarbudi! Let our enemies sleep lifeless when they are bitten by you. Let the flames of agni and the crests of smoke created by you by the force of Maya go with us, defeating the army of our shanrus. (19)
When the brave and rich host appears to be sleeping happily in the house and the well-kept people in the yajnashala, they give money to those near them. 
O ghost man! I call your mind to this world through my mind. In the houses where the work is done for you, that is, after the renunciation of the body, you go to those houses of ours and after the rites, meet the father, grandfather, father etc. according to the method of purification. Having reached Yama, you go to the fatherland and get the air that removes confusion. (21)
I have never seen the guard sun degenerate, they sometimes walk on the nearest and sometimes the distant path. They sometimes wear too many garments together and sometimes separately. They come into the world again and again. 
I have brought samidhas, the means of ignition, for the great and jataveda agni. May the Jataveda agni give me reverence and wisdom to get growth from the samidhas. (1)
Just as gwala spreads animals for grazing in the forest, so do felicious and revered usha
O God of Agni! Protect our yajna with your fierce and fierce radiance. O God of agni with a kind heart! Take this yajna of ours to the gods and kill you demons while protecting the yajna. They can't control you. (9)
O Indra! Stop your horses called Hari in the form of sun. A horse named Etash drives the wheel of your chariot forward. Go across the ninety rivers that are transpirable by boat and reach the sacrificial asuras and put them in duty. 
Just as the cow's calf is ramming, so does Pavman Som go everywhere, looking at his parents, Dyava-Prithvivi, and saying words. The marudagans also go on saying the same words. Knowing the good water of Sobhan Karma, which shobhan man will be chosen besides me for praise? 
O agni! You give us the stoyas new houses as well as food. May we find you as messengers while worshipping you in each yajnashala. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
Hey Mon! You give us more quantity of cooked barley with grain and other fortunate properties. 
When the water that does the same favor as nectar appears from the rays, then the medicines permeate the sky and the earth. When the radiants of agni harness the water dripping from space, then O agni! Everyone follows the water that is revealed by you. (32)
O very young man, agni! You are the subject of praise of the hymn that praises for the host. Your tongues are pleasing. When well called, you understand our intention and increase the age and make the presentation long-term. He is a god, you respect him. 
The fires produced by the two aranis are located illuminating the three realms and illuminating all the worlds. They are located near the water of the characters of the prosaic etc., calling the gods and becoming the yajnakars. 
The same route releases urine and the same vagina enters the sense and releases semen. The womb is covered with a young age and leaves it with birth. He attains truth from the truth. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk, nectar. It gives us sweet substances. (76)
 O hosts! Indra is the giver of various types of splendor. You try to please them with thousands of methods. 
O Indra! Don't do us violence, nurture us. Give us the abundant money that is meant to be given to the giver, for we praise you. In this charitable and praiseworthy yajna, we will praise you well. 
May our praises please the agni like that which is placed in the mouth of the great, the worthy of the yajna, the water-raining, the powerful and the desire-fulfilling, while performing the yajna. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come very quickly to hear our hymn by climbing on to your admirable trick horses. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as three bulls, then produce children from this cow, otherwise you will be considered ineffective. (3)
Oh, Usha! As soon as you appear, birds start flying from their nests and humans are oriented in their own karma by the desire to obtain food. O Goddess Usha! Give enough money for the havandata host which is located in the Devayjan Mandap. 
May Indra, who holds soma and truth, come to us. Let their horses lean towards us we host those are squeezing the saaryukta som in this yajna for Indra. May Indra, praised by us, fulfill our wish. 
 O Indra! You are very powerful and have a very giving property. You are very rich and huge in shape. We know you have a lot of means of protection. 
O Vayu Dev with shobhan invocation! Prajapati, the motivator of all, came to our yagna with the help of eleven horses attached in his chariot. You are borne by twenty-two and thirty-three horses. O wind! Come to our yajna and stop your horses here, that is, do not go to another place from our yajna. (1)
The Vedas (Darbha group) became the cause of indestruction for us. May the axe used to cut trees do good to us. The means of cutting grass should be vedi i.e. khurpi and parshu for our welfare. Those who created havi, worthy of yajna and wishing for yajna, accept the sacrifice of my host. (1)
O physician of the visible gods and the aschinikumaro who gives happiness! You were present at the time of the appearance made by Daksha. I call you a sage called Vishwak for the purpose of getting children. We don't break the friendship of sages and hymns. You come here and separate your horses from the chariot. 
Hey Varun! Do not kill us because of the sins of those who do evil to the gods or the sacrifices that we humans forget because of ignorance. 
Agastya said, "O lord of wealth, friend of friends, lord of all and shelter Indra! Tell the maruts that our yajna is complete. You come at the right time and eat our havya." 
We call the lord, the parti of the sage, the rising and the great Indra, with praises. 
Along with Indra, all the gods like Marut, Vishnu and Agni should be favorable to me in the battlefield. Let my fame echo in space and the speed of the wind suit me. (3)
You should worship Indra, due to whose shelter heaven and earth wear great force, water, mountains and thunderbolts. (5)
In a single day, Somras had subdued the kings of enemy cities named Shambar, Yadu and Turvash, the masters of enemy cities, to Divodas with true deeds. 
The one who is compatible with which the great cover and the charioteer holds it, they are always covered with both jatis. O Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make you staggered while tying it to your loops. (11)
O Ashwinikumaro who loves Martyaloka! Come from heaven and space. The son of sage Kanva has squeezed the sweet somras for you here. 
We praise Indra for destroying the huge body Vritra Asura. May Indra, who showers wishes, be the best. (12)
The yajna appeared from them and they appeared from the yajna. (11)
O agni! No one can defeat you at all. O Jataved! Varuna, who wears immortal, vast and kshatra force, should be very bright in this yajna place of ours and destroy all diseases and protect our homes from all human welfare at this time. (1)
Indra has added seven horses to his chariot. Horses move in their own way according to Indra's wishes. (21)
O agni! We listeners invite you to the yagna. You come to this yagna with all your powers. Be consistent with you with well-presented, havi-based exteriors. (2)
O deserters! You give the wise hosts sons who are skilled in doing all things, invincible in wars, brilliant, hostile, wealthy, praiseworthy and omniscient. We will keep these kinds of sons and grandsons alive for a hundred years. 
O cow that does not commit violence! Salutations to the one who is born and to the one who is born. Salutations for your hair, for hooves and for form. (1)
O horse-inspiring! Whip you inspire horses to move forward. The conscious mind hurts the raised limbs of horse-riding horses. They whip on their lips. Whips should inspire horses. (50)
Say praises while pronouncing the word Namah for Indra, who defeats all, who is the one who is a destroyer of all, the one who is the one who is the destroyer of all, the one who is the destroyer of all, the one who is the loser of all, the one who is the loser of all, the one who is the loser of all, the one who is the loser of all, the one who is invincible, the one who bears everything, the one who is the creator of all things, the one with the perfect neck, the bearer of 
O fasting friend and Varuna! Come to the yagna with the season. Our yajna is growing and devoid of the hindrance of enemies. 
 O Mon! For you, these people are stable. These worlds are stable because of your greatness. Cows are running to give you milk. 
O Indra! Give me sleep through both my eyes. Give sleep to thousands of our cows etc. (3)
May indra and other four gods, who follow the directions, free us from the traps of the god of death and protect us from sins. (2)
There is no obstacle to the nearby, unbonded and downward sun. With which power does the sun move upwards? The suns like pillars in the sky follow heaven, who has seen it? 
O Indra! Drink this sweet somras crushed with stones. O rich and great Indra! You give thousands of money when you are more intoxicated by somras. 
O Ashwini Kumaro! Please come to the yajna, give divine and truthfulness. Devgans are well-wishers of human beings. They should come in line in the yajna and please destroy the enemy. (89)
He serves the gods in all the yagnas of man and the host listens to many scriptures and takes care of the gods with happy things. 
Just as the morning praises the gods, Indra praises the som, which is squeezed by us and mixed with cow's milk-curd. 
Just as water flows down from space, so do the satiating streams of shaktidata soma go to dashapavitra. 
O Ashwajikumaro! While preparing your rain-bearing chariot, increase our strength with sweet water, increase the speed of our people and give us money in the battle of heroes. 
 O sun! Your rays are new. Someras also engages in new works, from which Brahmins 
Savita Dev is the creator of all gods. Ashwini wears them with the arms of the gods. They are worn by the hands of the pusha deity. May they please adapt to our minds. We cut off the necks of demons and separate them. Destroy them. You are Yav. Please separate us from our enemies. We observe you for heaven, space and earth. We purify the space for the earth. This is the house of fathers. It is the abode of ancestors. (26)
While saying the word, Soma goes like a shatruhanankarta warrior and reveals his asura obstruction force. Soma renounces old age and goes to Dronakalash as a potable substance. Som rests his dynamic form on the dashapavitra made from sheep's hair. 
May this sacrifice be well received for Brahma. (20)
The sages who confuse the goal of death are full of age. You also drive away this death. Then let us praise the yajna in life. (30)
 O agni! You are the guardian and intact 
While being squeezed, these somas go to all the selectable riches and sacrificial gods. 
O Sabita! You spread light to the world. We wear you with the arms of Ashwini Dev and the hands of Pusha Dev. We perform yajna for the satisfaction of the gods. You are the right arm of Indra Dev. You are the air that burns thousands of disorders with your speed. You are very bright with light. You have the power to destroy the culprits. (24)
Salutations to the earth on which grains like wheat and barley are produced, on which there are five types of fields, the earth that is strengthened by rain. (42)
The people who desire the gods, like the yagyakarta, the destroyer, the creator, the producer, the friend, the recipient of unaccounted wealth and go near the visible agni and consider him as the chief god of the yajna and praise him. 
One who donates aj published from Dakshina as Panchaudan resides in the same worlds with remarriage. (28)
Among the khuch devas with havya, the pradhan goes with him for salutations near the jataveda and the ancient agni. 
The gods who are present in the yagna of the true-natured Savita, the friend and Varuna, may they give us good fortune, food with children and cows, revered wealth and virtuous deeds. 
In this yajna, I praise the vast, great, multi-sized and endless earth and sky through salutation mantras. O fortunate and pleasantly refreshing earth and sky! Save us from sin. 
AshwiniKumar and Saraswati Devi offered havi made of animal milk, curd and ghee to Indra Dev. Both of them were praised in all ways. (69)
The deserts wear the name Yajnaya due to protecting the child located in the womb of the giver. (12)
O Jativeda Agni! Protect us. Don't give us a man who desires sin and has a violent mind. 
O Indra, performer of hundred yajnas! You are going to show force in war. We give you havee in yagna to get wealth. 
 O agni! You are born by rubbing 
Just as money seekers occupy the sea by sitting in the boats that are seeking money, so do the stotas with the hand in their hands surround Indra from all sides. This stotao! Just as women climb the mountain to break their favorite flowers, so too do you get close to the powerful Indra, the protector of the great yagna and the powerful indra with the help of a bright hymn. 
O agni! You are the navel of the earth. You get nourishment from the wealth of samidha. We call for a huge agni time and again. We praise you with great (long) praises. We call for the victorious agni here. We call for the courageous conqueror Agni. We call for agni to attain opulence here. (76)
O God, Ashchinikumaro! Listen to our praise, accept the yajna, come to the three saans of this yajna and take our food together with Usha and the Sun. 
O Indra! I'll call you at sun and at noon. You come by your fast-moving horses with delight. 
Tie the abhavarta gem, which defeats the enemies and destroys the demons, in my hand for the prosperity of the nation and the destruction of the enemies. (4)
Due to the hole of my mind and the defect of speech, Saraswati has left me with anger. Jupiter, who agreed with all the gods, remove these defects of mine. (1)
May the sages who composed the seventeen kandas get this sacrifice well. (27)
O Indra! My mind comes close to you as a desire for barley, cow, gold and horse. 
Those who are praised with the beautiful richas of Samaveda, who mix day and night, whose rays are the nymphs of Gandharva, they should protect us. May the sun protect Brahmins and Kshatriyas. It is an offering for them. Swaha for them. Offer affectionately to them. (39)
 O agni! Those who are dwijnama 
The receiving, detailed and wishing praises of me, the sage Krishna, who has received everything, praises Indra very well. Just as wives touch their husbands, so my praises go to Indra, dhanaswami to seek protection. 
Oh husband and wife! Among the worlds where the hosts have authority in the sky and the earth, there is a light and sweet world. Attain that world or both the worlds of earth and heaven and live until old age while being rich in children. (6)
Just as Aditi's son friend, Varuna etc. were of the same knowledge with the eight Vasus, just as the fierce and powerful Rudra with the forty-nine Maruts became angry and of the same knowledge, O three names i.e. Parthiv, Vidyut and Surya Agni! Do not get angry and make these people of equal knowledge. (3)
Just as a tied man targets his subdued men and transmits his bodies through devilish maya, in the same way, this medicine made from the tree of Akaua i.e. Arkmani makes your reproductive organ eligible for the consumption of the woman. (1)
Hello to the one who lives in the leaves. Hello to the one who sits in the fallen leaves. Hello to those who are in constant effort to be born. Salutations to the destroyer of enemies. Salutations to those who hurt the workless. Salutations to the one who produces the arrow. Salutations to the bow-making child. Salutations to the one who basses in the hearts of the gods. Salutations to those who contemplate creation. Salutations to those who divide those who live in sin. (46)
O Gautamvanshi sages desirous of water! Your adornment days came and adorned your udak padanayak yajnas. In those same days, the sages of Gautamavanshi raised the well to drink water by giving a greeting with a praise accent. 
O lord of the gentlemen Indra! Be merry by drinking the somras of the somas that you raise and are pleased with the mantras. 
Hey Ritvijo! You squeeze the beautiful and intoxicating mon with sweet juices to Indra. By drinking it Indra will give us strength. 
Soma, who crosses the Dashapavitra made of sheep's wool and falls into the kalash in the form of streams and is intoxicated quickly, gets Indra from his motions. 
That God is without desire, patient, without death, self-born and satisfied with juice. He is no less than anywhere, that is, absolutely complete. The one who knows the same patient, jara i.e. old age and knows the young soul, is not afraid of death. (44)
O our opponents! We adapt your minds, deeds and resolutions to us. Those who are against the rules, we should punish them in front of you. (5)
Shunshep, bound by three wooden yups, had invoked Varuna, the son of Aditi, so the learned and merciful king Varuna had freed Shunshep from bondage. 
The demons who eat humans roam around in the dark night of Amavasya. May the fourth agni god kill those demons and thieves and protect us. (1)
O sage named Virup! Praise the glorious and rain-burning agni with the usual words. 
The agni, located in the water of rich, bright and significant, illuminated by seven rivers, was amplified. Just as the horse immediately goes to the calf born, so the rivers go near the agni. The gods made Agne shine as soon as it was born. 
Towards Indra Dev, we should become gentle and good-minded. They are good protectors and helpers. They should come to us soon to remove our misfortune even when they are far away. (52)
 O agni! You are powerful. We wish to get the powerful you. We ignite you with samidhas. You are radiant and huge. 
Like the head of the dulok, the desire-filled, omniscient, detached and placed in wooden vessels are carried in many ways by the som taritwijas. 
 O Indra! With your power, you defeated the kriv monster. You increased the glory of heaven and earth, you delivered one part of Somerus to the stomach, the other part to the gods. You inspire other gods to drink somapan. Satya Swaroop Published Someras reaches Indra. 
In whose house such a learned fasting guest came at that time, when the agnis have been illuminated and the agni is going on, then the householder himself goes in front of him and says, "O fasting! You command, I will perform havan. (1)
Hey Varun! My havya with sweet juice is ready. Eat that havya like you would. After that, we will talk to each other. 
O head of the village of demons and swami of demons! May the demons that you have sent to us and the demons that you have sent return from us. Let the weapons you have also return. Your retainer thieves also return. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. The user who sent you to me. You eat the same. You eat his meat. (1)
This agni is habitable nearby. For you, let the sun rise in this world. Come out of deep, dark and dark death and attain life. (11)
Hey Indra! We please you through Sukta. You listen to our voices in space. May we never perish. (14)
It has been a river with stones. You friends, try to cross that river. You get up and get across it. Remove those who are incompetent in this. May we find happiness and well-being from this river. (10)
O thunderbolt Indra! Protect the chariot that stands behind us and bring it in front of you. 
The bones that afflict the testicles and the bones that make up the head are without disorder, they should not abandon your body. (13)
The deserts meet through their transmissions. They compete among themselves like hawks flying as fast as the wind. 
O water! You are arun and white. We worship you as active and powerful. May you give us food, fame, glory and Brahmavarchas. (6)
O Mon, lord of more wealth! When you are cleansed, when you become bright beauties, then fill the praiseworthy and sealike Dronakalash. 
Oh, this desireful Indra! Many food collectors call you to drink somras in many places. Our prepared mons look sweetest to you and you want them. 
This four-cornered antelope is adorned like a square mat. O patient! Through this, I destroy your diseases like decay, leprosy etc. (3)
O adhwaryujano! The Indra, who killed the Vrithra Asura who stopped the water, with a thunderbolt, as if the trees cut down, take the Somaras to Indra, who wants to drink it, because they are the ones who have the ability to drink it. 
The black shape that covers all the objects has come especially to me. Oh, Usha! Remove this darkness similar to debt. 
Those who make all beings old, those who call the gods, the cheerful, the most intelligent and the seekers, awaken among the agni usha. They identify beings with two and four legs, hold wealth in the gods and hosts of auspicious deeds. 
O Indra! These natal cows have conceived by eating food from the mouth in such a way that water remains around the sun. 
The intoxicating Mon has created the interconnected dyava-prithvivi. Those growing together and without perishable dyava-prithvivi have been irrigated by Som with his juice. Som got the force of motion and destruction all around by making the vast and unbound Dyava-Prithvi known to all. 
Water or medicines should free me from the sin caused by the anger of the Brahmin and from the sin caused by untruth speech. May they save me from yama's loops and from all sins related to God. (2)
Hey Mon! Your velocity moves like the waves of the ocean. Make a word like an arrow you left from the bow. 
The agni medicines are not considered food and eating and not calming down. They go to young herbs. 
Those who perform all their duties for my sake, who depend upon me and are devoted to me, who are free from attachment, and are without malice toward all beings, such devotees certainly come to me.
 The agni of yajna is powerful. In that all the havis offer. May those agnis surrounded by power along with all other agnis come for our welfare and also to do the welfare of our gentlemen 
Indra, who destroys the enemy after hearing the fierce and raining clouds and the call in the war, comes quickly to the chanter and the hymn. Let them indra and the chief god protect us. 
O Shobhan armaments and lord of the people, Mon! We want your friendship. 
Let us get children and food by drinking the somras of the leaders who are seen, omniscient and drunk by Indra. 
O God of Medicine! You are delicious, tasty, intense and elixir. You are created by mixing madhur with madhur som mixed with. Please cook for both of you Ashwinikumars. Please cook for Saraswati Devi. Please ripen for you patron Indra Dev. (1)
The revered group of rays is emerging as friends, Varuna and Agni's eye. These suns complete the sky, earth and space with the spirit of beings and their glory. (14)
Please confirm my body with the glory of the gem of Vidhata Dev Sycamore and provide food and cow dung songs in my house. (3)
 O Indra! You come by horses. You listen to the praise of Kanva. O inhabitants of heaven! We are happy under your rule. 
Hota performed yajna for Indra Dev, Ashwini Dev and Goddess Saraswati. These gods are the ones who purify the vegetation, perform hundreds of sacrifices, roar like Bhima, King, Lion. Appropriate anger. Hota performed yajna for the happiness of these gods with cultured food. Saraswati cursed Indra Dev with anger and strength. In this yajna, honey, ghee and milk are available for the gods. May the gods receive them. Please bless everyone. (39)
O enemy! You have no enemies on earth and in the sky. O rudraputras! All of you have the combined power to oppress enemies. 
 Where arrows fall in such a way, as if playful children without braids are falling, Aditi and Brahmanaspati should be pleased to give us happiness. May they always be kind to benefit us. 
Hey Varun, friend and Aryama! You are great and your defense of the host is great. We pray for your protection. 
The birds that eat honey on the tree, they expand the world. Those who describe peepal fruits as delicious and who do not know their foster father, they attain destruction. (21)
O people who are behaving! Devote pure greetings and praises to the auspicious and the glory. Fire moves by its intellect between all the substances produced by gods and human beings. 
 O Mon! You are a worshipper and sit in the best vessel like the sea. Our homes should be full of wealth. May our Godhan also be happy with your grace. 
O Indra! We will get the bright spot in your mind. While serving you with the will of karmaphal, we praise you for getting shelter. Let us be eligible for your donation at this time. 
The host can get as much rich place in heaven through a twelve-day-long yajna, only by serving the guest. (8)
Giving light to the whole world, Savita Dev resorts to upward rays. The sun has received the earth, sky and space from the rays, especially looking at everyone. 
I tell you about freeing you from the woman or man whom you have used this sinful act with enmity. (3)
The white-colored Indra and Agni, who go above the dolok from the bottom through their brightness, perform the yajnakarma of their yajnakarma and the host holds the havan. They had freed the rivers from bondage. They kill all the enemies. 
O agni! Give me the yajna-doer a cow as a means of many yajnakarmas at all times. O agni! May we have sons and grandsons, and may your fruitful wisdom be compatible with us. 
Our Indra Dev hoists the flags well. Win our enemies. Conquer our arrow enemies. May our heroes progressively emerge victorious. May the gods protect us in the yagyas. (43)
O Rudra Dev! You are the desired fruit giver and the ultimate welfare worker. You are kind and good-minded towards us. You place your weapons at the typical height of the tree. Wear clothes with animal skins. You just come with your bow. (51)
Those who are asuras named Krishnakeshi, Stambaj and Tundik, all these are diseases of misfortune. I remove them from the thighs and waist of the womb. (5)
The supreme man is immortal. Learned men can say something about that. His abode is divine, which is secretly present in all, in which three positions are secretly contained, who is the knower and who is also the father of the Father. (9)
In that joyous state of Yog, called samādhi, one experiences supreme boundless divine bliss, and thus situated, one never deviates from the Eternal Truth.
The yajna which is more elaborate among the gods, let us become the growth of that yajna. (60)
After failing to kill Vritrasura by any means, Indra, with the effect of tying this gem, went for victory and defeated and destroyed the demons. Indra has conquered the earth and the sky with the influence of this gem. With the influence of this gem, Indra has won all four directions east, west, north and south. (3)
O Maruto! May your chariot be sinless. The chariot that the stota drives even when he is not a charioteer, he walks in heaven, earth and sky without horses, being foodless and loopless, as an inspiration of water and fulfilling the desire of the stoetas. 
Squeezed with the help of stones by ten fingers going around to work, Indra's beloved, admired by everyone and the wavy Som bathes in the water. 
To subdue sinners, you used the powerful rope. They are revered in the joyous yagna. He is Indra decent, famous and stunning. (13)
Oh, King! We mix the stable Somras with the indestructible Purodash, so Indra has made your people devotees and tax payers. 
Therefore, arise and attain honor! Conquer your foes and enjoy prosperous rulership. These warriors stand already slain by me, and you will only be an instrument of my work, O expert archer.
So serve the gods worshipped as the leader and guest of this yajna and serve the devas and wives. Keep away from us the enemies present in the remote parts of Savita who divides everyone. 
O Supreme Power! You are powerful and powerful in oppressing the wicked. Those who earn their livelihood from women, get their food, you should harass them. (21)
They are the same held on the wide altar similar to the fire skin. Fire is exploratory, dynamic and going into the forest. The omniscient and the knower of yajnaadi, fire hosts etc. give special knowledge of performing yajna for human beings. 
In the command of Vishnu and Varuna, this world is especially bright, breathes and sees the fruits of its actions. Apart from this, the holders of Vishnu and Varuna, who illuminated the world, used to try with karma and forces in ancient times. People who want fruits to connect this type of Vishnu and Varuna with their first call. (2)
Indra, who drinks someras, sends unlimited money towards us. Indra is of glory due to being prevalent in all the worlds. The glory of the same Indra completes the earth and the sky. (5)
The flame of the flame sits near the agni, befriending the host. 
Air moves due to time. The earth is glorious because of time. Dyulok is glorious from time and dependent on time. (2)
The spectacular, virility and rudrarupa deserts originated from space. The deserts are hostile, sinless, purifying all, like the sun rays, as powerful as rudragana, wearing raindrops and in a profound form. 
O Indra! We, consisting of somras and squeezing somras, call you the one who does sompan by stota worthy sluties. 
Salutations to Jatamaya Rudra. Salutations to the mundat. Salutations to those with thousands of eyes. Salutations to hundreds of bows. Salutations to the one who sleeps in giri. Salutations to everyone. Salutations for the pleasantness. Salutations to Ishuman (with an arrow). (29)
    O Mon! You chew the item. You have been installed in the yagna griha. You are the Indus form. You wave the voice like the waves of the Indus. 
O agni! Just like a termite eats wood, you eat it. Just as chun eats wood, so you eat it. O agni! Samidhas are as dear to you as ghee. Please accept all of them with a very dear feeling in the yajna. (74)
It is worthy of dying today, it is worthy of death tomorrow, while calculating this way, Yamraj, the main of the devas, has attained the best path. He is the swami of the two-legged humans and the four-legged animals of this host. Salutations to those Yamas who inspired death. (3)
O air of havi! We see here the best form of your desire to perform yajna. You go to go mandal. When havi is offered to you, please accept it and medicinal form havi. (18)
Oh my friend and Varun! You give wealth, divine food and food that is produced on earth. The rain with water stay with you. 
O ancestors who have come to the yajna and are sitting on the Kushas! You come before us to protect us. These desires are for you. You consume these. You come with your welfare defense tools and establish in us the force that quenches the raga and destroys sin. (51)
The poison-extinguished, violent-pointed, iron-faced and the huge arrow produced from the skin is a salutation to god. 
O God of rain! May a group of roaring maruts praise you. The drops of rainwater take many forms and wet the earth. (4)
 O Mon! Give us happiness with the flowing holy streams like your waves. 
O shining flowers everywhere! This mon squeezed for you gets you similar to pure ghee. You give us commissible women. 
Vishwavyacha is its skin, herbs are its lom and nakshatra is its form. (15)
O act! The one who practiced has located you in the meeting or in the nearest of gambling. We return you to him who sent you. (6)
If the cow married immediately is consumable for its owner, then he should wish for another cow. If the man does not donate the vasa cow to the supplicant, then this donated vasa cow destroys him. (13)
Usha, the ekatka born in the beginning of creation, had removed the darkness. It was a milk giver for our ancestors. It should also be milk-giving for us and provide opinionated fruits. (1)
O agni! The deserts clean up the space for you to sit. O Indra! For your sake, the broad post of Vishnu is certain, which is electric, pictorial, charming and inaccessible, in the same position you hold the udaka called Confidential. 
O God of agni who defeats all! We meditate on you in all ways. You are the destroyers of demons who fulfill desires, are meritorious, have more rain and falling force and nature every day. (22)
Shrotriya Brahmin is actually the guest. The host should not eat before that. (7)
Just as Indra's chariots go towards the struggle, so the so, having been squeezed and filtered by us, goes near To Som Indra. The soma squeezed with the help of stones crosses the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair. The green mons inspire rain except for old age. 
The Suryaputri named Shraddha brought the great som from heaven as rich and great as the cloud. Gandharvo grabbed that mon and poured juice into it. Hey Mon! You drip juice to Indra. 
The medicines, which are wishing for water and filled with superior semen, desire Indra as soon as they are born. (4)
O Indra! You come to listen to the hymn of the hymn in this yajna, giving food to the hymn with the rich ones. With a hundred maruts and horses skilled in walking, you come to the yagna of the mon prepared by the host in a thousand ways. 
O Usha! Accept the strange food that the host has. Bring the yajnakars who praise you into a violence-free yajna. 
The horses, blowing dust and running briskly with chariots, wiggle loudly. They crush violent enemies with their toes without running away from war. 
O Indra! Give us yellow money i.e. gold in large quantities. Indra is the swami of all human beings and one of all kinds of excellence. (3)
 O agni! You worship the gods with your tongues 
When I take these herbs in my hand, making the patient powerful, the soul of the disease is as it is that the organism is destroyed by death. 
Hey Mitra and Varun! Both of you are the enhancer of the yajna and the toucher of the yajna. You have made this huge yajna to give us the fruit of the yajna. 
He lives on the banks of Dhanvan rathaviti Gomti. His house is near the Himalayas. 
O unprecedented and wealthy Indra! When you strengthened the earth and opposed the world to kill the vrithra. 
We call the Ashchinikumaras who guard the water and walk on the praiseworthy path at night, usha and day in all times. O Ashwinikumaro! Don't give food and money to our enemies. 
O safe, praiseworthy, upwelling flames and strange agni in the form of a forest wood! Bhrigu installed you in his house like a friend. Be well pleased with the bharadwaj who worships every day with the best of praises. 
O Indra and Agni! It is true that you fought for lost cows, waters, sun and usha. O Indra and Ashwaswamy Agni! You both made the world full of directions, the sun, the ushas, the strange waters and the cows. 
O stotao! Take refuge from the true heart of Indra, who gives wealth. Indra's donation is auspicious, so praise him. Indra fulfills the wish of his worshiper. The man who asks for money by praising attracts Indra's mind to give money. (2)
O agni! We have brought pure ghee to offer to the gods. O agni! Indra increased the prestige of yajna with his strength. Charishnu promoted yajna with his strength. You are the food provider. You are sitting at the yagna site. We want to live under your umbrella. We will always maintain the sanctity of the yagna site. (8)
O Savita Dev! You are the one who produces the world. We ascend to you with the arms of ashwinikumaras and the hands of the god of pusha. You bravely drove away the enemies, killed them. Just as this monster was killed, so should the enemies be killed. (38)
Oh, God! Who can praise you besides Me, whom you serve? O god of the knower! You become the child. Who besides Me adorns your yajna by host hymns? Yajna does us well by saving us from sin. 
Hey Mon! Give us strength and knowledge. Kill the enemies and give us good luck. 
O God of Water! We purify you for the yajna works related to God. The impure instruments of yajna are also not acceptable. Impure water is also not taken in the yajna. (13)
Without the happiness of the member
O Indra! You are pure. You come to our yajna. You come with the pure protectors and become sinless and give us pure wealth. O soma worthy and pure Indra, be you joyful. 
It has appeared from the agni of the wise and learned Brahmin. Devgans should imagine the favored, purat and vast karma according to the season due to this. (13)
O Indra! You are going to defeat the enemies. You have made the sun bright. You are Vishwakarma, Vishvadev and Great. 
O Indra! Pleased with the purodasadi havya and somras given by us, give us money along with cows and horses. In this way, by eliminating our poverty, you become a good mind. If Indra will help us by being satisfied with this somras, then we will consume the food given by Indra by destroying the bandits and getting rid of the shanrus. 
We had taken the revered and moving horses from Kumar, son of Sahdev, on the same day. 
Praises about the rainy season go close to Jupiter, who creates water and gives fruit to godly hosts. They produce all the best fruits like the sky-wide matrishva and manifest it for the sake of yajna. 
O agni! May our sin be destroyed by your grace. Enrich our wealth on all sides and destroy our sin. (1)
O Dhanaswami Indra! This havya is offered to you. O well-beautified Indra! Assume it without anger. For you the somras has been squeezed and the purodash has been cooked. You should consume this matter that has come near you. 
O darbhamani! Grind my enemies and those who gathered the army against me. Grind all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (9)
O Indra! Accept with greatness my speech with the mantra group that Vasishtha worships. (3)
 O Indra! We hosts praise you again and again. We offer sacrifices for you again and again till the bath that takes place at the end of the yajna with our brilliance. 
 O hosts! Agni holds the brightness of the sun with thousands of rays. They are the basic basis of yajna. They hold heaven and earth. He is a hundreds of thousands of types of opulence and vishwapati. 
O Indra! Come here and drink som prepared by crushing with stones and mixed with cow's milk. (7)
O Savita! The waterpart that you have hidden in space is the same as those who seek in the waterless regions. You have given the birds for the forest tree habitat. No one destroys these actions of Savita Dev. 
We install this presiding deity on aditya dev's back. The presiding deity occupies space. You provide stability to all directions. You are like the wife of bhuvanas and waves of water. Your seer is Sage Vishwakarma. Ashwinikumar is the priest (Adhwaryu) of the gods. Both Ashwinikumars please to revere you at this place. (5)
O leader of the yajna and equally praise Indra and Agni! Join the yajna and come towards the squeezed somras for the sake of the yajna. 
Oh, wife! I have seen with the eyes of the mind wishing you to conceive in your body according to The Deepthishali and Ritu. O wishing for the son! Be the best young woman near me and have sons. 
O young name, the air with the ashes! Adhwaryu goes the most simple routes and takes the havya for you to eat. You drink both types of somras mixed with our pure and godly etc. 
In fact, Satyajit, who removes the defects of abhichar etc., the oath yogini who removes the anger of others, the sahamana who defeats everyone, the herb called Punasara, which destroys the disease again and again, gets other herbs to destroy the abhichar dosha. (2)
Indra drinks this squeezed somras and be happy to kill Vritra with a thunderbolt. Indra, the protector of the yagnakarma of the hymns and the guardian of the hosts, may come to our yajna even from a distant land. 
The year and month do not make Indra old. Even the days don't make them weak. Hearing our praises, the body of the great Indra grew. 
These frogs speak in the same way that the hymns holding the Somras give annual praise. Like the ritwijas who conduct the class, the frogs appear to be wet with sun and hidden in the burrows. 
Gold ornaments, incense, google, coating and ornaments have been given to you by God, the founder of ornaments, to receive a husband who is blessed by Gandharva and Agni. (7)
O agni! You are the caller of the gods, the worthy, the captive and the affectionate of the basus. You come. You happen to be the gods. Please perform yajna for the gods. (28)
Hey, Lord! After you have done this work, you asked, "Where has he gone, who came to us as the messenger of the fire gods?" At the time when Tvastha saw the spoon divided into four pieces, she considered herself a woman. 
Just as the chariot maker takes the chariot to the owner of the chariot, so I also send the praise word targeting the worthy Indra and immerse the world-wide havya for the wise Indra. 
The earth on which the Yajna Mandap is created, on which the yupes are erected. On the earth on which the mantras of Rigveda, Samaveda and Yajurveda do the work of worshiping God and making Indra drink Sompan. (38)
Friends, Varuna, Surya and Antak give us peace. May the planets that cause havoc on earth and space and the planets that transmit in the world give us peace. (7)
The elaborate yajna is able to take the yajnakar to heaven. Let the agni satisfy the yajnakar who performs everything. In this world, those agnis make the host complete. Do not let the agni host deviate from this yajna work. (13)
O Indra and the Yaayu! You two bring food to give us. Somras is ready and is wishing for both of you. 
The one who is absent does not perform the yajna and the one who is present is the ritual of yajna, the one who receives the yajna when the related fast is received, the same Virat is said to be in the supreme vyom. (8)
 O hosts! Irrigate the money-giver agni with ghee and somerus. Give them full respect. They are going to nurture you. 
The stothas who satisfy Indra and the air through their praises and possess divine qualities destroy the enemies. With the help of these stoetas, let us destroy our enemies and defeat our enemies in battle. 
O Sun God! Burn those who hate us or those we hate with the glory you have. (3)
 The moons are moving with their rays in space. The sun's rays are golden and bright. Our senses cannot catch them. O paradise! And the earth! You accept our prayer. 
Hey Mon! You give us money containing vasu, gold, horse, cow and barley and with a lot of semen. Hey Mon! You are also the father of my father Angira Rishi. You are located on the sheel of heaven and you are the doer of food. 
Drive away the thief and the crooked person who is blocking our way away from our path. 
O Indra! There is no god or man to stop the wealth you want to give to the psalms when you hear praise. 
The praise we give is more grainy. He should put more grain on top of the food in battle. 
This dyava-prithvi has created the air for wealth and the lightly praised holds the air god only for the sake of wealth. At this time, the horses of the air serve them and in the event of poverty, those horses bring the money-giving air to our yajna. 
Indra, who flowed without any desire, did your choice with his power. O sports water! That's why you got the name Wari. (3)
 O agni! The best praises revealed by the voice of the host are praising you. We install you near the air. 
O Varuna! You have seven rivers. Just as water comes out of the city. In the same way, you flow water from these seven rivers. (9)
The three types of harmful demons, acts and pupil makers who are hundreds of witchcraft, the gem made of the medicine named Jangid, all of them should be destroyed and juiceless. (2)
The agni flowing in eight types is fierce. They are the guardians of gods and the creators of the intellects. Make such an angry God weak by trembling and weakening him, and all the elements of his soul are worshiped, and all the directions are given by the swami, in the womb of nectar, in the womb of nectar, and in all directions. Make those angry gods weak by making them weak by the criminals and scholars, and make them violent of your father brahmin, O Rohit Dev! Tie it up with a sword. (19)
Arjun said: O Shree Krishna, I behold within your body all the gods and hosts of different beings. I see Brahma seated on the lotus flower; I see Shiv, all the sages, and the celestial serpents.
O agni! You are like everyone, even though you are a behoes- ing and you appear close to you even while you are far away. Oh, God! You shine by destroying the darkness of the night. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O agni! You are ignited by this grain and tell your friends, Indra and Varuna, that he is my devotee. Protect us from the crime that has been committed by us. May Aryama and Aditi take our crime away from us. 
The ritwij exploits the drug-dripping, with a thousand streams, full of desire and all the wealth-holding mons. 
The wise ritwijs inspire the desire-filled and water-showering Mon as a stream of water with fingers and hymns. 
The vampires who hold the gross body of pregnant women on the shoulder and who disturb the waist of pregnant women, O Indra! Destroy those monsters. (13)
 O Indra! You are the destroyer of Vritrasura. Whether you are with us or far away, we invite you to the host who performs the Soma Yagya. We call upon you with our best praises like horses with beautiful hair on the neck. 
Let the Gods of Fire and Savita listen to our praises and come to our yagna with the gods of the earth. O young people! Just as you protect the whole world, so come to our yagna of your own free will and protect us. 
The Blessed Lord said: Arjun, being pleased with you, by my Yogmaya power, I gave you a vision of my resplendent, unlimited, and primeval cosmic form. No one before you has ever seen it.
O ghost! You are going to go to the fatherland. You reached the happy and happy fathers with both the sons named Shyam and Shabal of the bitch of gods named Sarma. (11)
At this time, Pavman Som wishes nisha a beautiful, huge, great and sightable day. 
I establish in this pillar all the acts of violence in the weapons, the loops of King Varuna and the poverty and bad conditions. (49)
O Prajapati! We have no one else in this world except you. You are the only world. The wish with which we perform yajna, please fulfill those wishes of ours. This is the father of such and so, we are the father of such and so. Let us become the masters of wealth, swaha for you. Swaha for rudra dev's fierce and welfare form. (20)
O hosts! Serve the means of yajna and the master of the yajna by the eulogy in the havyukta yajna. 
We hold the arms of the sustainer Indra around us, they should protect us from all sides. O inspiration and king of all, Som Dev! Make me not going to be destroyed by Sangram and Shobhan vijay wala. (3)
Cut with an axe on the earth, thrown into the pit by the Ritvijas and the yajnasadhak yupa should bring our havya closer to the gods. 
O agni! To any host to whom your heart is gracious, you give him the best food of strength and dwell there. 
The sun swallows the repressive and young moon. Look at the importance of God's creation that the one who dies today, tomorrow he comes alive and starts breathing. The meaning is that the moon that hides today comes out again on the second day. (9)
O agni! You have always been killing demons, demons have never been able to conquer you in battle, you burn meat eaters. They cannot escape your divine weapon. (11)
O patient man! I enable you to live a life of life by staying healthy till old age in the middle of east etc. May your diseases like rajayakshama etc. and diseases made by sin gods go away from you. Similarly, I redeem you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god caused by disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the treason of the Guru, Dev etc. and from the sins of Varun Dev. I make you sin-free with my mantra. May both the world and the earth be benefactors to you. (5)
When a Devshuni 
O Mon! You give us thousands of best money and food. 
Agni is dear to us. They are Vishwapati, Hota and Varenya. May we all be dear to them. 
The sage said, "O Indra! You come before us and irrigate the earth with water. You've got older age. You destroyed the enemies in the past and then you destroyed the enemies. You are pervading this vast world. Both Dyava and Prithvi cannot measure you." 
In times of war, some warriors worship the mighty Indra, some warriors cook the purodash and give it to Indra. At that time, the hosts who squeeze the somras do not give a share of money to the hosts who do not squeeze. Some people resolve to perform yajna on the occasion of Kamavarshi Indra. 
O God! May you get the fear that hates us and condemns us. (3)
These undefeated people do not practice yajnakarma in this loka by the Brahmins who know the Vedas and with the gods of the hereafter. They are neither stotas nor somayagna doers. They do agricultural work by running a solution like a fool, with the proverbial voice that takes refuge in sin. 
O god! You are the queen of the east direction. The deva of directions is the sustainer of all of you. Fire is the ruler of all. You are the retainer of the trivate. Please establish trivrita stome on earth. Please be kind to strengthen you. Please revere to establish you in the land of space. The sages are pleased to establish the first born god among the gods. You are a special holder and ruler. Expand Overdeva you. Please provide heavenly happiness to all the gods and hosts. (10)
O God of Agni! I could not repay the debt I took and was unable to deal with; I pledge to give it to him. May the agni, which is beneficial, sustaining and subduing all beings, give us the world that is available as the fruit of virtuous deeds. (1)
The flames of agni are bright, powerful and terrible. So no one can destroy him. O God of agni! Burn the demons, the yatudhans, and our world-eating enemies. 
Hey Mon! You sanctify me, bound by sins like a lump, and give me the way and the power. O som, the green ones and kept on dashapavittra! You do the same words as a horse. Bright Mon, who gives the house and the bridegroom! You come to me. 
We praise the agni in space and the raining, the womb of the cloud and the protector of water, the electric agni, through sinless and adorning hymns. Those agnis in three places do not anger me with their flames at the time of my journey, but ignite and burn the forests. 
O agni! Take shelter of the yajnashaladwaras who wish for the gods and bring the gods who wish for the yajna to this yajna. 
O Som and Rudra! You are with a bright bow, with sharp arrows and a pleasant one. Wishing for shobhanamastotras, make us happy in this world, free us from the loops of Varuna and protect us. 
By transcending the three modes of material nature associated with the body, one becomes free from birth, death, disease, old age, and misery, and attains immortality.
The creator of the whole world has possessed this earth. He has also worn the Dulok. Give a husband to the girl who wishes for this husband, because he controls the world. (3)
The host who serves the Brahmanaspati with arrogant words, they take him by the ancient simple way, protect him from sin, enemies and poverty and do wonders. 
I call for clean and deity waters. Our cows drink water in water-filled reservoirs i.e. rivers and ponds. (3)
 O Mon! Your juice host wears the same way as the load carrier carries the burden with both hands. Just as chariots go to war, so someras is being taken to yagya. 
May the sages named Sadaprina, Yajat, Vahuvrita, Shrutvita and Taraya be your benefactors and destroy your enemies. These sages become bright by attaining the wishes of both the people. They worship the Vishwadevas through various hymns. 
Mon, who was helpless and watching everyone, overcame all the violent enemies. People adorn the meritorious Mon with praises. 
The gods give you life, strength and consciousness and attain you on every occasion. (10)
I admire the gods who are unbeatable by the great enemies and the ones who have increased the yajna by their importance. Those gods with strange wealth rain water from the clouds. May those gods with a strong friendship make us the best of human beings by giving us money. 
Indra had become fierce by the armaments who knew mankind and all the work, surrounded the asuras and made their cities tremble. Indra, the great and holding the thunderbolt in his hand, had killed the asuras. 
O air! You are our father brother and friend. You do yajna for our lives. 
O Mon give us the same full meal as charu. O radiant Mon! Give us a thing worth giving. O injury-blowing Mon! You pour the juice from the senths of stones. 
We all praise the mighty of lord, guardian, violent and eternal young Vishnu. He had circumnavigated all the realms of the earth, etc., by placing three steps for the admirable defense of the three realms. 
The Vaishvanar Agni, who follows the yagnaadi vrats, takes birth in the best place and protects the fasts and measures the space. The brave karmakarta Vaishvanar touches heaven with his fast. 
This stotao! I call Indra, who destroyed the enemies and shobhan hanu, to listen to your prayers in the same way that water is prayed to the cloud. 
O Shur, indra who has met the gods, is full of marutas, who knows the vrithrahanta and the yajnakarma! Drink somers, destroy our enemies, abuse the violent, and give us all kinds of awe. 
O Shur and Dhanaswami Indra! Let us please the enemy destroyers with the best and various defence measures. Those who hate us fall down, and let us forsake the one whom we hate.
 O Saam singer Brahmins! Indra deserves praise. You sing elaborate samantras for them. Indra is a knowledge seeker and an extension of it. 
The mantra of Samaveda was his mattress and Udgeeth was his pillow. (8)
Let indra's thunderbolt rapidly get involved in the killing of our enemies. The things that exploit the yajna should be similar to those of ancient times. Wear the brightness of your brightness purely as Indra is illuminated. May indra, the guardian of the gentlemen, be as bright as the sun. 
A person with food who keeps his mind stiff even after finding the hungry begger in front of him and eats food in front of him, he cannot find any happiness provider. 
O Angira Agni! You serve our yajna, accept our glory and listen to our hymns. 
Let the rivers filled with fresh water come to us at a rapid pace without violence. The specially pleasing hymns invoke the Sukhsaadhika Seven Rivers with the aim of gaining vast wealth. 
Do the yajna and get the god somras who wish for havya. While wishing, Jupiter performs yajna with a satiating and selective somras. We hosts had heard the sound of stones originating in a distant land and means of chanting som. This host of shobhan karma itself holds water and many habitable houses. 
O O O O Son! We give you dhruva i.e. downward direction, its ruler Vishnu, the protector Kalmash Greeva, and the Ishumati medicines. You protect this until the time we go. Make him attain a dilapidated state as a result of our shortcomings. The old age entrusts it to death. With this cooked grain we will be born again. (59)
I praise Indra, who is very great, elevated in qualities, with immense wealth and true power, to gain strength. The wealth of indra is capable of nurturing all human beings. Just as water moves downwards, so indra's wealth tends to provide strength. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! The house in which you are going to sit in your chariot and drink somras is not far away. 
O human beings! She (Savita Dev's grace) is going to give full life. Capable of doing all actions. Has the power to hold everyone. Prepare havi by mixing somras in Indra's part. May Vishnu bless you to protect Havi. (4)
O Indra! Give us money quickly. Who can stop you from giving money? We know that you are the master of the best riches. O Indra with horses called Hari! Give us the great wealth you have. 
I compose hymns for myself, the son of Bhavyavya, who lives on the Indus arrow. That invincible king had performed an izar somayagna for me with the desire to achieve success. 
O Arati! We make rich. Don't be around us and don't influence the dakshina we bring. We are giving this havi to the goddess, the presiding deity of charity, with the desire not to grow. You get it. (1)
The vajra through which the visible Aditya i.e. the Sun has been raised in heaven, due to the power of which both Aditya and Indra are located in their respective places, the god named Trishandhi i.e. Vajra has been served by all the gods for the attainment of radiance and strength. (11)
Indra's power is in the middle world, in space and also in heaven. The high vajra for sports is in the hands of Indra. They are visible like the sun. To get food in this yajna, please the same Indra. (17)
The wealth of this host increases and it gets strength for it. Someras is proved for Indra. Quick Brahmins praise Indra with puja mantras. (2)
Oh, my friends! Make drink and leather rope for animals. We take water from a pit that is capable of watering and is not able to irrigate water. 
O you of praise, the great-lit and the more grained Indra! Protected by you, we the meritorious people who praise you have become worthy of your wealth. 
Brahmanaspati gets what he wants with a bow with satyaroop jyo. They throw arrows produced from the ear, visible and skilled in work. 
Today kush has been laid in the yajna and one stone of squeezing somras has been placed on the other. At this time my mind goes to the refuge of the gods without malice to get the desired object. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
The interests of Som Indra, who possesses the great jhuloka, situated on the navelform uttarvedi of the earth, hidden within the waters of the rivers, like the thunderbolt of Indra, who has the desire-complementing and wide wealth, go for happiness by becoming a beautiful agent. 
The ritwis take away the goat for the purpose of offering it to the horse dressed in the form of a silver and decorated with gold ornaments. The many-colored goat doing "in, in" is the beloved of Indra and Pusha. He came in front of the horse. 
O stunning Indra! You increase our collectible wealth like water on the vast earth. Oh, hero! Just as you have spread water around, so also expand our life-sustaining food. 
 O Indra! You are stable. You are the one who sees and knows the whole world. You are soon going to remove fear, as well as remove fear forever. 
O you who are the doers, the destroyers of the enemies in wars, the unsung and the ones with thousands of streams! Take power over enemies. O pure and wise mon! Send your rays to Indra while you inspire the words. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come to our yagna by a chariot more moving than the appearance of the eyes. May your defense be near us. 
The young and powerful young men, who meet the rule of deserts, take electricity to their chariots for rain. At the same time, while chanting the mantras of worship, the havandatas and the hosts who squeeze the somras read the praises while serving the maruts. 
O you see! I want to ask you, not to other god-wise gods. You drink the somras that you put in the anana with the year-to-day and make it mature. 
 O agni! You are going to develop divinity in man. We describe your greatness by our praises. O agni! You have also been well pleased by other sages. 
The Angiragotrian sages, desiring cows, sat in the yagna, taking measures to attain immortality by the stotras. They wanted to separate the months by their yajna. So there were many asanas in his yajna. 
 O Usha! You are also going to start Dhanvati and Yagya work. May you give wonderful glory, so that we can be able to feed children and our friends. 
The horse is given to the giver of dakshina soon. He gets a girl adorned with a robe ornament. She is given a house as clean as Pushkarini and as strange as a temple. 
O God of agni! You are like the emperor of yajna and the tail horse. We worship you through praises. 
 Usha, who comes close from the distant sky, is going to spread light, from which the whole world is illuminated. 
Due to everyone's nourishment, serviceable and wealth, Som purely goes to the kalash. The lord of all beings, Som, illuminates the dyava-prithvivi with his fast. 
O agni! You are produced from the aura by the use of force and have favorable light. You give us eternal happiness. O son of food, agni! Free your stotha from sins by protecting her by means of following it as hard as iron. 
O Indra! May our enemies be as angry as a tree when they see the axe, their limbs fall down spontaneously like a semal flower, and with our spell power they should fall foam from their mouths like a handi that cooks food. 
The wordgoers exploit the seven ritwij water on the Indus coast. In these also use the two remaining five. 
O great usha and night! We give havan to you with mantras that bring happiness and knowledge to you along with other gods worthy of worship. You know all the deeds of the host and come to the yagna. 
Soma we give disease-free food to humans and animals with two legs and four legs. 
 O Mon! You are a poet and beautiful. You are mixed in water to please the God of God. 
O beloved born agni! The anger of men can't hinder you. You're the only one stunning at night. 
The agni, the son of water, originating from water, located in the waters of rivers and the son of water, is praised by mantras. 
We praise those who have been secured by you and proved superior to all, and who became Aryans and conquered the bandits. Just as you have killed Vishwaroop, the son of Taksha by becoming the friend of the Trinity, do the same for us. 
O Vedika! You are the place of origin of Kshatriya. You are the navel of a Kshatriya. Do not give this asana to you. You also don't trouble us. (1)
What happens, what does it do? He carries the home made by the host. That havya is possessed by God. There is a daily and idolous havan. The gods have appointed me for this work. 
The knower of Brahma is the one who sees all the real and movable. (5)
Hey Mon! Shower us with more numbered and rich power and give us food. 
I praise Indra, who performs yajna, as a commerce doer. That Indra should come here and face me. Indra should go ahead with the violence of enemies who obstruct my commerce and thieves and tigers who block the way and become a money giver to me businessman. (1)
Just as agni burns forests, Indra burns the demons that are hindered by the rays of the sun properly and grows defeating the enemies. 
O agni! Give wealth and successful sons to those who chant new praises from time to time. O glorious and unstoppable agni! Just as the thunderbolt drops the tree, so do you destroy the enemies with your glory. 
O Lord of the Food and the Praiseworthy Mon! You become a godly god and give us more amount of divine food. 
 We hosts have wisely established agni in the yagyavedi. We worship the divine agni. We also request Indra and Vayu to hear our praise. May both gods be pleased to give us fame and wealth. Our prayers will definitely reach the respective gods. All our yajna-related works are being done only to reach the gods. 
From that primitive man came the cosmic giant. Many men were born from the cosmic giant. After being born, he grew up from the universe. After this He made the land and made the body of the living beings from the land. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You meet each other like birds' wings. You have come to this yagna like two strange animals. You are as bright as agni in the yajna of the host and worship the gods in places like priests. 
O Shur and Vajradhari Indra! The hymns praise your soon-to-be-made donation in the battlefield. You took the maruts along with you and destroyed the entire lineage of the Shushna Asura. 
O Indra! In the war in which you are praised in many ways for defense, win the enemies when our hymns call them into that war. 
Demons who afflict the people and burn the people like agni do not come quickly in the yagna. The naked demons do not come near the agni of yajna at night. Those who fought the demons and the bearers of the yagna were born by force accepting the agni woods and food. 
O houses! Wearing food and the swami of wealth, I should be blessed with wisdom and look at you with a favorable and friendly eye. Let me come to you praising you. May you be happy in My possession, so when I come to you from another place, do not fear me as a stranger. (1)
O Indra! With your help, we will drive away our enemies. You are ours and we are yours. 
The intoxicating juice drippings and scholars find a place in the waves and medium voice of the River Som. 
O agni young man with huge rays! Save us from the hindering monsters. Protect us from the cunning violent animals who do not donate money and the enemy who wants to kill us. 
The four-cornered altar-like young woman is adorned with antlers, smooth with ghee and wearing hymns. On it sit two birds of the husband's host and priestly form and the devas receive their share. 
Hey Varun! Remove the fear from me. O glorious and truthful! Have mercy on me. Just as you deliver the tied calf from the rope, so deliver me from sin. By staying away from you, no one can gain authority even for a moment. 
O patient Indra! You redeem the psalms from debt. Just as the sword cuts the boats of animals, so you destroy the sins of the psalms. Indra also destroys those who wear Varuna and the friend and omit the sacrificial work. 
Indra Dev becomes intoxicated with Someras and increases the strength of the host. He and Vishnu Dev Yajaman, like the former sages, are expressed by your glory stotras. (97)
The one who knows this becomes the darling of White, Naudhas, Saptarshi and King Varuna. His favorite place is in the north direction. (24)
The adorned karma-wala Indra, wishing yash, destroys the beautiful houses of the asuras with his power. They become as wide as the earth and the sun etc. cover the flames and rain the flowing water for the host. 
For the violence of sinners, devas like Yama, Death, Aghamar, Nirtriti, Bashchu, Sharva and Neelshikhand etc. have left their place with their family members. They should leave our sons, grandsons etc. (1)
The wonderful and wonderful Vaishvanar Agni has specially stabilized the earth and the sky and has eliminated the darkness by speed. They have spread the space like leather. They hold all the powers. 
Oh, lingering Mon! You bring wealth of the Son of Adorn to our stothas and increase their praises. 
O blasphemer, Indra, who is the guardian of cows and who treats all hosts as equal! You defeated all these enemies. 
 This is Shachipati 
Where is the injured parasya? (6)
O Maruto! We follow your forces, groups and clans through beautiful praises and giving greetings, etc. 
O Ashwinikumaro! I don't know the pleasure of husband and wife's infancy. Tell me about that. My young husband resides in my young woman's house. I only wish that I could have a beloved, young woman-loving and powerful husband. 
I free you from the curse of Varuna, with which you were bound by a serviceable Savita. May you get happiness in the house of a virtuous and good deed husband. (19)
Khuva is the Darvi i.e. the karchhuli, purifying is the ayavan, the drona kalash is the pitcher, the northwest vessel is the skin of krishnajin i.e. black deer. (17)
O Indra! We come to you to protect the yajnakarma. Let the young, furious and hostile Indra come before us. O Indra! Your friends, we choose you to be worthy of service and to be the protector of all. 
Swaha from hair to Mashak Dev. Swaha from the shoulders to Indra Dev. Swaha for Jupiter dev with bird-like velocity. Swaha from hooves to Karma Dev. Swaha for the invading god from the gulfs. Swaha from the nadis under the gulps to the kapinjal. Swaha from thighs to goddess of velocity. Swaha from the arms to the path dev. Swaha from knees to jungle god. Swaha for Pusha Dev from knees. Swaha for Pusha Dev from the lower knees. Swaha for Ashwani Dev from both shoulders. Swaha for Rudra Dev from other powers of the body (3)
O best regulator and inspector! I send the fruit of the bad dream to the son of such a tribe and such a woman. (7)
O Shunruta painter Maruto! That's your havi. O enemy-eater Maruto! You consume our havi by protecting you. 
Hey Mon! Those who squeeze your juice squeeze you between Dyava-Prithvi for the purpose of destroying Indra. Mon walks like a horse being made. 
Som is the king of medicines, water groups and strong. The Father first revealed Soma. Those somras medicines should make us madhuman. May we awaken the nation. Swaha for priests. (23)
 Som is holy. They filter and take the form of a stream and win the enemy land by making a sound. They run towards heaven with the effect of yajna. 
O meghavahana and thunderbolt indra! Your own power is overrated by the enemies, for you killed the antelope-shaped Vritra by maya, showing your dominion. 
O stotao! Take the indestructible substance located in the white songs and bring Someras for Indra to drink. (7)
O Mon and Pusha! One of you has made the advanced paradise his abode, the other remains in the earth in medicine and in the sky in the moon. You give us our share of animal wealth, which is preferred and more rewarded by many. 
O self-respect! You wear an urn full of somers. Skins are the shapers of animals. May those born be auspicious to you. Give us these children of yours. (6)
O agni of the sun and sinless vision! Your terrible flames go all over the place. As wide as a cow at night, the agnis produced in everyone's habitat and forest are delightful in very few places. 
Oh, King! Savita Dev, Som and all the beings have become compatible with you. In this way you have found the shelter of all of you. 
O Indra! Hear the praise of your servant Stota, who is being accompanied by others, and come to him quickly. Also come to you the praises of the other hymns who wear the haavi. At this time, I wish you a very goodwill. 
Vishnudev set his feet on the earth of hundred rays three times with his glory. May Vishnu, older than the elderly, be our lord. The form of the rising Vishnu is bright. 
O sociable indra with a good speed! Just as a thirsty bull drinks water, so you drink someras, crushed by stone and refined by water, for fulfillment, valour, importance and pleasure. Just as the horses named Hari call the sun, so should your horses bring you to drink somers. 
Get pause. (15)
 O Indra! You are rich. May our prayers bring you laurels. The host is as holy, radiant and learned as agni. They praise you again and again with prayers. 
We remove the nightmares that show disease, the demons, the fierce fear of tonetotes, vampires and poverty from this man suffering from this trick. (1)
The devas received the kooth like a flower of nectar through a boat of heaven tied with gold rope. (4)
 O agni! You give the special money received from Amar, Pranimatra and Usha 
There are still others who are unaware of these spiritual paths, but they hear from others and begin worshipping the Supreme Lord. By such devotion to hearing from saints, they too can gradually cross over the ocean of birth and death.
The yogis look upon all—well-wishers, friends, foes, the pious, and the sinners—with an impartial intellect. The yogi who is of equal intellect toward friend, companion, and foe, neutral among enemies and relatives, and impartial between the righteous and sinful, is considered to be distinguished among humans.
These houses have been rich in happiness, food and juice, milk etc. and wealth. These houses, appearing in front of us, come from migration and know us as masters. (2)
The beneficial mons for food drip around the beloved and flowing waters of the world. Great som grows within the waters. The Soms who see all climb the huge and all-round chariot of the great sun. 
I am the lord of seven cows, the one with truth, the master of the brave intellect and the master of huge mantras. The praise of the gods comes to me. Born in the Angira tribe, I go to the gods with salutations. O Indra! You give us annual and strange money. 
We praise the vast and inexplicable Aditi who created food for the origin of food. Aditi, who has a wide sky in her lap, should the same Aditi give us a house of three storeys and three chambers. (2)
He walked in an open direction. (19)
O Vrithrahanta Indra! You and I will stay together until you receive the money. O Vajradhari and Shur Indra! The non-donor also praises your donation. Indra's donations are welfare. 
Yama was born in mortal beings. He died first. After this, they reached another world. Yama is the son of the Sun. All beings go to them after death. O Ritvijo! Worship these Yamas who give fruits to everyone according to sin and virtue. (13)
O bright and wretched Mon! Give us a voice that is worth thousands and desires to give us money. 
 O agni! We worship you with speech and vats rishi mind. Please come to us from that supreme place too. 
O Mon who sees the leaders! You should pour out the fulfillment of the yajna and after indra's drinking, for the item and happiness. 
I praise the fast, the earth and the day and night of the friend and Varuna. Hey Varun! Take us in front of the eternal giver. 
Praise the gods for whom Mother Earth pours out sweet milk and for the deities for whom Adin and the cloud-riddled sky holds nectar, those with admirable power, the rainers, the doers of adornment and the sons of Aditi. 
The meritorious hymns read beautiful hymns in the yagnas against the supremely powerful, Vaishnavar Agni to attain the sanmarga. Deathless agni serves the gods through havan. That is why no one contaminates the sanatan dharmarupi yajnas. 
Those who destroy the house like a berry and get even the smallest particles, then they go to it for the sake of vasantik sharp transfusion. (3)
The Indras who are the only great and brave by their actions, who defeat all and wear a cap on their heads, are the only ones who come and do not separate from us. They should listen to our hymns and come before us and do not forsake us. 
O you are pure, Mon! Like the women who feed for the sake of the son, the lamps that give money to the hosts and have a stream of adornment go into the characters. The green ones, brought by the Ritvizs and chosen by many people, chant the som in the water and in the house of the devabhilashi hosts, say the words again and again. 
O gods of heaven and earth! I praise you for the accomplishment of yajnakarma. O heaven and earth! Both of you listen to my praise and when Ritvija is engaged in his sacrificial work, then you increase us by providing water. (31)
O Mon! We accept you for Indra Dev. We accept you for Vasuman. We accept you for Rudra Saman. We accept you for the same as Aditya. We accept you for the destroyer of enemies. We accept you for Indra Dev, who pounces like a hawk to drink. We take for the agni, the giver of wealth. (32)
O you who most abusers the enemies, worthy of praise by the said mantras, pure, sanctify others and the wonderful Soma! You tap. 
O agni! You are the sanctifier and the one who shines. You call the gods from your tongue. You perform yajna. (8)
The bandit went to the goshala of Indra Kuvits with countless cows. Indra revealed those hidden cows with his wisdom. 
 O agni! Sage Angiras discovered you. Before that you were hiding. You live 
Indra's horses should reach his chariot on the Kushas on which we are worshiping Indra. (2)
Whatever has happened or is about to happen, it is all a great man. He is the master of nectar, for he leaves the causal state and holds the world state. In this way, beings enjoy it. 
Listen to our call to the god with great light. Listen to our word with your sons, the gods and their wives. We protect the hymns, the sages, the vaj, the chariots and the delightful deserts. 
O agni! With what power do you know our sacrificial work while raining water? Know us the glorious agni that protects the seasons and the glorious agni. Fire is the lord of the animal etc. of my devotee. Don't I know that? 
The earth that provides cow to Indra becomes like a branch of a tree on which ripe fruits are planted for the host who gives havi. (4)
May water make us happy in the desert land. In places where water is accessible, may the water of the places be well-being. The water obtained by digging wells, stepwells etc. should be beneficial for us. May the water brought in the pitcher give us happiness. May the water obtained from rain be pleasant for us. (4)
 O Indra! Human beings have been doing somayagya for you. Manishi has also been performing havan for you. Never take those who perform yajna away from yourself. 
O praises! Hosts target the fire and move around on the land of the altar. May your praise be revered, defeating the enemies by power, awakening in the morning and pleasing to the animal-giving fire. Just as the captives praise the rich, so the praise is good, the best of the gods is the praise of the fire. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! In olden times, whenever the sages called you to protect you, you came. You come to hear this soothing praise of mine. 
O Vajradhari and Karyati Indra! We who drink somras call you because of the bizarre defenses. O errands and the most ant of the enemies, Indra! You drink somras with the rainy maruts. 
O Indra, who does many things! The ancient sages, such as Angira, who originated in the earlier period, had obtained your friendship by acting like in the present period. Medieval and new sages have also praised you. O Indra called by many! You know the praises of me, the ancient Bharadwaj. 
O agni! Quickly complete the work you've been sent for. O rebellion! You eliminate the enemies by force. O bright agni! You accept the praises of The Psalms. 
The hymns praising through verses and desiring of water prayed to the maruts and built wells for the thirsty gotam. Some of the maruts had protected us by hiding like thieves and some had clearly caused us to increase our power. 
For Indra, this character is completed with sweet juice. That Indra is enlightened on earth only by his force and he is worshiped by truth. (7)
O agni! Your horses are extremely dynamic. They show their energy by shouting. Don't be violent about these horses. You harass wild animals. Increase your flameless body. Those who do not love us, those who hate us, your anger should make them suffer. (48)
O virgin! He is not what you think of him. Two rays are spread. The man is going to grind them. (1)
O agni! You come before us. You call the gods to do havan and sompan. 
The confluence of wealth and properties, Savita illuminates all the substances with her power. Savita is a true religion like the divine god and is in a war of money. 
Oh my god! May savita, the creator of all, illuminate you with her fine arms and fingers, that is, divine rays, with her power and intellect skills, may you become without sorrow on earth and attain your good desires and high purposes( 63)
May this land of gods accept the lying skin and have compassion for us with a soft heart. Due to the grace of the earth, we should reach heaven as the fruit of yajna. (8)
Indra, the swami of the day, Varuna, the swami of the night, Indra, the ruler of heaven, and Rudra, who killed everyone, considered me gracious. May Adi Dev, a friend who nurtures the whole world, make me stunning. (2)
We praise the ghost, the swami of the ghosts and the one who subdues the ghosts. May all the ghosts come together and free us from sin. (21)
The one who invokes the person who does the desired work, he narrates it to Shruti. (1)
O Indra! In the war of food, I call you, who have grown up enthusiastically and have been rich. You are the efficient leader of the yagna. You take a terrible form to protect your servants in wars, kill your enemies and win their money. 
Which chief god has established yajna form karma in this man? Who established truth, untruth, nectar and death in this? (14)
The sages who composed the six hymns should receive this sacrifice well. (3)
O gem made of ten trees like dhak, sycamore etc! Rescue this man holding brahma from the demon and demon. That Brahma rakshasi is holding it in the joints of the body. O gem made of vegetation! You brought it to the realm of living beings, that is, revive it. (1)
O animal! In this yajna, knowing your greatness, the god located in space, while serving your organs, come out from all sides and take your life. After this, you become accepted by the gods and go to heaven and be situated there towards divine enjoyments. After this yajna, you go to heaven through the path of gods. (5)
I praise the wealth of the god group of holy riches. They are the beloved people of the chamber. Let us, together with our sons and grandsons, consume this wealth with love, I praise the god group who gladly gave food, horses and chariots to the angivan, who had the Angira tribe. 
Save me water from the sin we have committed and the guilt of touching the corpse-eater agni. (40)
May Indra, who gives human beings the desired fruits, is as powerful as a bull and attains heaven, for whom the stone provides Somras, and for whom the Somayag related to Indra, who is happy, save us from sin. (3)
O Pawman Mon! You receive food and strength. Just as the hawk goes into its nest, you are located in the kalash. Hey Mon! You are like heaven, the seekers of heaven and the special seers. Your intoxicating juice has been squeezed to Indra. 
O Lord Indra! Just as the sun is familiar with the flying of birds every day, so you understand the movements of monsters. 
 With the help of Indra and all other gods, the sages keep this Bhuvan in their discipline 
Oh, God! We are speaking to the praise of your giving all for water. The Atrigotrian sages who performed the Navgava Yajna had spent ten months on the basis of them. Because of these praises, we may be protected by the gods and can overcome sins. 
Three thousand three hundred forty-nine gods served the agni; the gods soaked the agni with disgust, laid kushs for them and made them sit in the yagna. 
Vasha Gau accepted the yajna and wore the sun. Brahma i.e. with knowledge entered Odan i.e. Bhaat Vasha Gi. (25)
They are ignited, for whom the hosts go to give havi like sage Atri and who destroy the trees like a furse. The mother of Aranirupi gave birth to the agni which blesses the world and receives food. 
 Indra is skilled in war 
 O Indra! No one can win you. You destroyed ninety-nine asuras with a thunderbolt made from Dadhichi's bones. 
Indra, knowing it well, has given us friends a huge field and a lot of gold. After that, songs etc. are also given. Deeptiman Indra, along with the leaders maruts, created the sun, usha, earth and agni. 
Indra killed this Vritrasura while sleeping on the mountain. Vatra's father Tvashta made an easy-to-operate and sharp-edged vajra for Indra. After this, the water started flowing towards the ocean in such a way that the rambed cows run. (6)
 O Indra! You have to eat 
 Delicious and sweet someras becomes more delicious and sweet by adding cow's milk. After mixing water and filtering, som takes the form of a stream and gets Indra. 
This gem made from this varan tree, endowed with divine qualities, will also eliminate our enemies with tuberculosis disease entered our body. (5)
O agni! The hosts serve you sitting in front of them by constantly burning wood in their yajnaghars built in the unruly villages and give you various types of havya food. All of you become masters of food and hold on to give us money. 
 O Mon! You are helpful and nutritious. The stream of you filters into the sieve. Your currents flow at a velocity. 
O Indra! This one who is the host who gives food in the form of havi, you protect his chariots. O Indra! Someras has been cremated, so leave your horses and come here and do not go to other hosts. (1)
Then, Arjun, full of wonder and with hair standing on end, bowed his head with folded hands before the Lord and addressed him thus.
O Brother Varun! We and you are both the same. Our children should also be equal. I know these things. What I haven't given you so far, I'm giving it now. I am your saptada sakha. (10)
O beautiful Mon! This woman being a husband is going to follow your clan, so we give it to you for protection. He stayed at his father's house till then. He stayed at his father's house till his head fell on the earth, that is, till death. (3)
By drinking this highly intoxicating Som, Anakrant Indra killed the enemies first and still kills them. 
The young men with conflicting forms agree on where they want to go day and night. Tell us about the same God, where water is coming with the desire to go, who is He? (6)
 O hosts! Offer someras to Indra. After drinking sweet succulent somras, they give a lot of money to the hosts with their glory. 
O rajju! You are for Indra. Please be stable for them. You belong to them. Please associate with all of you gods. (30)
O God of Water! Inder chose you (for cooperation) to destroy the tree. You chose Indra in the destruction of Vritrasura. You helped Indra in the destruction of Vritrasura. You are the beloved of agni. We refine you for agni. You are dear to Mon. We refine you for Mon. We purify you for actions related to the gods. (12)
O agni! Bring the gods we praise closer to us and drive away the demons who roam around with the desire to kill us. O agni with divine qualities! Pleased with our greetings etc., you kill bandits. (1)
The deserts who form the ray-like path for the sun to walk are located by their brightness. 
Varuna gave way to the sun in space and provided the water of the ocean to the saritas. Just as the horse approaches the mare, Varuna separated the great nights from the day for the quick passage. 
Saraswati Devi is the divine gate, Ashwinidev established prana and semen in Indra Dev. Ashwini Kumars established evil in the eyes of Indra Dev. Hold money for us. May the hosts who want to earn money please perform a welfare yajna for him. (49)
By making bones samidha, the eight types of water mentioned earlier entered the man's body. The gods entered the man's body by making semen. (29)
Hey Varun! What is my great crime that you want to kill my friend Stota? O unbeatable and stunning Varun! Tell me the crime so that I may atone for him and become innocent and come to you quickly with greetings. 
O Indra! You are pleased with the sompan and protect the hosts and fulfill the desire. That is why they repeatedly give you somers to increase your power. You sing in battle for the pleasure of hosts. Hosts approach you with a desire to receive food through a variety of luxuries and victory. 
Indra's thunderbolt is made of iron, beautiful, anti-hostile and worthy of holding in his hands. Indra, who had rich, shobhan-nosed, was filled with anger and annihilated by an arrow, was watered by a green som. 
Just as a gambler looks for another gambler to win himself in the gambling house, so dhanaswami Indra looks for defeating the sun that opposes the rain. O Dhanaswami Indra! No new and old person can act according to your power.  
Yami said- Prajapati Adi Dev wants to have this kind of relationship with the tazya women. This relationship is unsavoidable for humans. Make your mind compatible with Me and like the Creator, you also enter my body as the father of the Son. 
The godless who longed for agni had sanctified the three mortal, the earthly, the electric and the sun, the great and the guardians of the agni that went around. The gods placed the earthly body on earth and the other two in the sky. 
They should shower all the wealth generated in dulok, earth and space for the host who gives the som havya. 
O sun! You, through the same light, produce the night as well as the day, and walk through the vast realm and space, looking at all beings. 
I praise Dharmarupini, the supreme purity and the earth that grows through mantras. O earth! You are going to possess nutritious food and strength. I sacrifice hatred on you. (29)
The yajna-completer and the wise ritvaij praises the secondary voice located in the wide and pure soma, with many streams. The dynamic, the scoundrels of the hymns, the courtesan speed, the leaders and the beautiful deserts in view fall into the hands of those who praise the madhyamika voice. 
 O agni! The one who gives you the divine substance is never affected by the deceit of an evil 
The enemy who hates us and our sons, brothers and animals and whom we desire to destroy, O Gem! You destroy these two types of enemies. You hold on to kill an enemy more powerful than Me and leave the enemy of the same power as me and move forward. (3)
The host should destroy the violent enemies by igniting the yagna agni. Get the host enhancement of the psalms and the guests who read the hymn. The host whom the Brahmaspati accepts as a friend lives for more days than the son of his son, that is, his grandson. 
 The working fingers prepare and purify Somerasa. Ten fingers hold the mighty Soma. The green somerus goes in all directions in the same way as a moving horse. He is full in the pitcher. 
O act! If you have been inspired by gods or men, we return you to them, because we are indra's friends. (7)
O spheres made of sattu! You become a spoiler and a healer. O body! You become fat. 
 O Indra! You are Vritrasur Hanta and Sompayi. Please drive away the enemies and definitely come to our yagna. 
O Indra! You defend the host of the human beings by participating in that war from heaven, in which the heroes are involved. You are fearlessly subdued by the bandits who are skilled in the work of yajna and obstructing the fearful host. 
We, a hundred people, have come to the agni with thousands of bright, adorned, well-adorned and praised by Rajarshi Trisadsu with the idea of getting protection. 
What this child will hear and return to the living world was already told to it. First the father's order to go to Yama's house was done. After that, the condition of returning was given." 
 O Indra! By what means do you protect us? How do you make us very happy? How do you fulfill the wishes of the hosts?¦ 
O Indra worthy of worship by eulogies! You drink the mon squeezed by us. You are soaked by the streams of sweet soma. O Indra! This Mon is the form of your fame. (6)
 O Mon! You are also the destroyer of enemies and those who do not give money. Som is dripping to go to Indra. 
 O Indra! You are going to fulfill the wish. We are offering somras to you to drink in som yagya. You take the joyful Sommers. 
Vishnu, imagine your vagina, tvashta create your form, Prajapati cleanse you and dhata strengthen your womb. (5)
The soul that lives through the air, who sees with his eyes, the god in heaven and heaven — all these sacrifices are born of brahman in the form of rest. (23)
 O agni! You are a globalist, destroyer, publisher, husband and anandvardhak. The hosts offer sacrifices to you while reciting praises. Please provide plenty of money to the hosts. 
O agni! Let us never suffer from the great and widespread sin that we have committed against gods or men as your friend. May you give peace and happiness to our sons and characters. 
On going to Somras Nichud with the psalm pronunciation and the beginning of chanting of the uwath mantras, I praise indra, the great and water yearner, for getting wealth. 
 O Indra! You are great and very capable. You do not lack in grace towards anyone. You obstruct those who do not donate. 
Ashwini Devas mixed the squeezed bright som with medicines. Saraswati abducted Som from namuchi rakshasa. Indra Dev installed on the seat of Kush for drinking. (59)
O Mon! You are sweet. Always come to our urns with your energetic streams for the satisfaction of the gods. 
As soon as the agni god appears, he starts the yajna and as soon as he appears, he becomes the leading among all the gods. In the mouth of this agni that invokes the gods, take the word Dev Gana Swaha. (11)
O aschinikumaro! You built a house to protect Atri. May your defense be near us. 
O Rudra! You are a troubleshooter like a preventive medicine. You provide medicine for our horses. You provide medicines for our people. We want the skill of your sheep and other animals from you. (59)
Indra Dev sits on kush's seat. They are age-old. We worship Indra Dev with Gayatri verses and take care of him with our eye power. They possess riches. They provide money. Perform yajna for host Indra Dev. (35)
Hey Mon! Indra, supported you, immediately broke one of the wheels of the two-wheeled chariot of the inspirational sun with great force. That chariot was present up in the great space. Indra destroyed the wheel of his supreme enemy, the sun's all-round chariot. 
O Indra! Make us prosperous with your great and energetic wealth. O Vajradhari Indra! Give us the same wealth with which you have perfected the heavens and the earth. (1)
People know Hiranyagarbha to be great and superior. It was God who created that Hiranyagarbha in the midst of this world. (28)
O divine, the son of Aditi and the friends of heaven and bhoolka and Varuna! We praise you. Even indra etc. dev, without death, cannot destroy your polemical works. 
 O Mon! The crushing stone is making a sound and taking out somersas. The stream of Som emanating from it is trembling just as a sheep trembles for fear of a wolf. We, the people of heaven, are happy under the rule of Indra. You come. 
For Prajapati, there is a law of wolves for elephants, flucy for speech, mosquito and ears for Chakshu Dev. (29)
We who desire money worship the agni that conducts force. May those agnis of adornment cross us in the same way as the enemies. The way the boat crosses sarita. 
The deserts living in the river called Parushni are surrounded by the light that purifies everyone. They penetrate the cloud by the name of the wheel of the chariot and their power. 
O God of Jupiter! This man who has come to your shelter praising you is our opposing enemy. O Jupiter, Agni and Soma! Control these miscreants and punish them in many ways. (2)
O Indra! All the psalms are praising your ultimate genius for penetrating the cloud at this time. At the same time, you hear praises and give money to the poor and suffering host and his children. 
 Somers is crushed with stones. Ten fingers of both hands clean them and make them watery. They wave like waves. They are dear to all, friends of all and kamya 
May the mother of the world, Jaldevi, purify us and sanctify us with her liquid form juice, because the deity washes all the sins of the person who bathes, bathes in water bathing, achaman and projection etc., that is why by bathing in such waters, I become pure and appear for yagya karma. (2)
We speak to the hymns that the ancient Indra, who wants to do the work of nutrition etc. for our welfare. We call them when somers go to Nikud. While pronouncing the Vedamantras, we give a havya to Indra in such a way that he can progress. 
 Your juice filtered is invigorating. You be filtered and sanctified by your streams. Make us people successful. Destroy all our enemies. 
O Jativeda Agni! We greet you with a warm glow, beautiful and worthy of praise. The gods have made you a non-attachment to the subjects, a bearer of speech and a navel of nectar. 
We speak praise while dwelling on the poleland. Varun frees our traps. Let us enjoy Varuna's protective means from near the unbroken earth. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
The gods appointed him a protector in the east direction for two months of spring. Brihatsam and Rathantar were made to perform the rituals. (2)
O hosts! Just as the ancient sages praised Indra with new hymns, I am also eager to praise Indra. May Indra, who has beautiful vehicles, get us success in all difficult tasks. (7)
O God! You accept my praiseworthy voice. Just as the kaami man approaches the woman, so come before the full praise of my desire for food. 
Hey Mon! When you are mixed with cow's milk, curd, etc., the water comes towards our huge yagna. 
The presiding deity holds the truth stable, the truth increases, the presiding one is situated in the truth. The gods increase the truth. These ghee and honey bees. They should be graceful and wishful. Never be weak. (3)
I go to the agni without dying, the Jataveda, the destroyer of darkness, the one who is worthy of being worshipped by the aphoria and the praiseworthy. 
Usha, the daughter of heaven, is seen wiping out the darkness and coming. So that everyone can see, it destroys the great darkness of the night. Usha, the hero of human beings, lights up. 
The scholars thought and saw the living bird with the eyes of the mind. He was surrounded by the maya of the asuras. Those scholars looked into the middle of the solar system. Those legislators wished to go into the place of the sun. 
Like the eye, everyone's publisher, god-benefactor and bright sun is coming out. Let's see a hundred years and live. 
Land up to two kos should be in my possession. May my heart never be angry. I should be as serious as the ocean by the power to hold. (6)
You have horses on the way quickly, melody, non-detestable, with golden wings, carrying, waking up in the morning, spreading water, pleasing and touching the mon. By those horses you come to our yagnas in the same way as the honey bee goes to honey. 
They want to satisfy god with blood. Friends want to please God with the best of gifts. By removing the evil, rudra wants to please Dev with that resolution. We want to attract Indra Dev with virtue. They want to please the deserts with force. They want to please the deities through their best deeds. They want to keep Bhava Dev happy. Rudra Dev from the background (back), Maha Dev with good conduct, Sharva Dev from the liver and we want to please Pashupati with the pulse. (9)
May we come to protect us with the fast-moving maruts, the praiseworthy and sacrificial Indra of the Psalms. Let us be the adornment of those gods and overcome all sins. 
 O Mon! Your streams are sacred. Please provide us with money. Just as the sun is the foundation of creation, they shed the air, so you flow in a pitcher called Vasativari. May the wise Indra get you and may we get good children. 
O Indra! When ready, somerus has become liquid like water. On this occasion, we are sitting with Ritvij singing your stotra. (14)
You should worship Indra, the one who possesses the sky, earth, water, mountains, thunderbolt, force and heaven with his glory. (9)
O Indra Dev! O wind! These sons of yours have prepared for you by squeezing somerus. You come to receive somersa. May Indra Dev and Vayu Dev bless us with peace. (56)
O agni! The flames of you are huge. You're going to shine. You are the destroyer of your sharp demons. You destroy the demons obstructing our sacrifices in the morning. (37)
I quickly see those who drink Someras etc. in this world, those who do not believe in me Indra, those who break my hosts into pieces with arms and those who come to kill them. My weapon vajra quickly strikes those who condemn indra, my great and all friends. 
May the water-raining clouds, the deserts, the Ashwinikumar, Indra, Varuna and all the desire-filled gods come together to protect us. 
The cow staying in the east direction is Indra and the cow staying in the south direction is Yama. (21)
Indra's mothers, who reach Indra with the desire to do their karma and with praise, serve the born Indra and receive shobhan wealth from Indra. 
O Indra! I don't believe in any comforter other than you. You bring me happiness. 
In a horse-giving chariot called Hari, bring Indra near the grain containing ghee here. 
O Indra! It's true that there is no other like you. No man or god is greater than you. You stopped the water and hit the sleeping cloud and made the water free to flow into the sea. 
The duties of the Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, and Shudras—are distributed according to their qualities, in accordance with their guṇas (and not by birth).
O Indra! I am engaged in the yagnakarma of a great man like you. I am appointed in the charity of a protector like you. O bali and furious Indra! Make home for us all day. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! Don't do our violence. 
O men who raise great wealth! Prepare the som for the purpose of the great Indra and speak shobhanstuti towards indra with the best knowledge. O Indra, who fulfills the desires of the people! Those who perfect you with a word, you go before them. 
Som gives animal-rich food to the wise man. And give the best money to the seven. Som had specially extended the blind long-term by giving eyes to the sage and giving legs to the lame paravraja sage. The reasons for the Mon special item are great. 
I kill the enemy who commits violence and kill the violent ones of the gods. Those who are my enemies should run away. For this reason, I cook the Brahmaudan that conquers everyone. God listen to the words of my devotee and help me. (7)
For those indras whose indra cannot be equal to the indra, the somras is squeezed. When Indra's anger is on the enemies, at that time, he strongly kills the enemies and also breaks their stable substances. 
 O Indra! You do us welfare. Cows are our friends. Just as they rain milk for us from countless streams, you also shower money for us. 
O Sompayi Indra! Keep your mind in charity. O you who are praiseworthy Indra! You should turn your horses named Hari towards our yajna. O Indra! Your charioteer is extremely skilled at subduing horses. Because of this, your enemies who wear arms cannot defeat you. 
O pawman somrup agni! You protect our lives. Give us strength and food, and keep the enemies away from us and cause us pain. 
 O Indra! Please give us all the money that you have won from enemies and which you are hiding from everyone 
Just as the creature being taken to the slaughter house considers itself dead before reaching the ground, just as we keep these powerful medicines in our hands before taking them, then terrible diseases like coronation also run away. (85)
O agni! God, the son of the sage, and man became holy and burned you well. Inspire the rain cloud by being inspired by all of you gods. 
It is true that all the mons belong to Indra. It is also true that the intoxicating Som great pleases Indra very much. It is also true that Indra is the owner of not only wealth but also of all the properties of animals etc. O Indra! You hold all the people for money. 
O sinful infirm mind! You go away from us. Why do you bring indecent things to me? You go away. I don't want you. Go away from here and enter the forest with dense trees and stay there. My shobhan man remained engaged in a house with wife, son etc. and in animals like cow etc. (1)
The agni called Shuddh Prashyashta was born with a pure yajna. Just as a bird goes from one branch to another to get fruit, the host performs agni-related sacrifices repeatedly, considering them to be definitely fruitful. 
O Jupiter! The Ritvijas, who touch the dead, shower on you the best honey collected from the mountains, sitting for the great protection of you with the means of protecting you. (3)
Awakening, the knower of true praises and being purified, sits in the characters called Som Chamu. The leaders of the yagna and the priests who have welfare in their hands and the adhwaryu touch The Som in the Dasapavittra. 
O mighty Indra! I believe that you have more strength than those who appear in many of the yogyas and who commit violence against our enemies. Your force is not to be subdued by fierce enemies and will subdue the enemies. 
The host has created the yajnaveda on his own, containing the brightness of the one, which gives all the signs and the heavens. Get you both together and be careful every day and come on the yagna vedi every day and get fast and strength. You are the son of Aditi and the guardian of all the gods. Friends, Varun and Aryama engage people in their respective work. 
O ghost! Your mind is in that crematorium. O cremation ground! You cover this ghost in the same way. Just as women cover their shoulders with clothes. (66)
O conscience! First of all, praise jupiter, who wears a gemstone and gives wealth. They are very pleasant to the praise host and carry great wealth to the calling host. 
Arjun said: O Krishna, where do they stand who disregard the injunctions of the scriptures, but still worship with faith? Is their faith in the mode of goodness, passion, or ignorance?
 O Mon! You're bright. You flow for the gods. May Someras be happy for heaven, earth and all subjects. 
That unmanifest dimension is the supreme goal, and upon reaching it, one never returns to this mortal world. That is my supreme abode.
I keep odan, the means of karma and the means of heaven, among the Brahmins, with this wide component. Growing with ksheer etc. juice, it should not be destroyed. As a result of this, May I get the fruits of various types and fulfills the wishes. (8)
The azya etc. kept in a vessel called Juhu come close to the fire. They get the praises they receive. Only they listen to the eulogies in full. Agni is the obedient, the star, the sacrificial, the eternal protector, the beloved and the one who accepts the sacrifice of yajna. 
O agni! We will give many greetings in the yajna by becoming the masters of wealth by speaking hymns that hold agnihotradi nityakarmo. 
 O hosts! Someras is sweet, pleasant and enjoyable for Indra. You praise Indra. They are the ones who deserve praise. You also dedicate Somers to his service. 
Capable of performing shakra seva, proficient in horse learning, with a wonderful gold body and a vrithrasak, Indra brings out the abundant cows and vibrates. 
O Balavan Indra! Protect us well in battle through the inferior, medium and best means of protection that you have. O you are fierce and great Indra! You give us food as a means of food. 
One who remains unattached under all conditions, and is neither delighted by good fortune nor dejected by tribulation, he is a sage with perfect knowledge.
Indra knows the skilled host in yajnakarma. Friends and those who drink extremely fresh somras give the best money to Indra stotas. Indra, who lives with the maruts containing food grains and vibrating the earth, comes and protects the stothas with the desire to protect them. 
Indra only knows how to hear this stuti. Triumphant Indra has made the path of the sun. Achyuta Indra has revealed the army. Indra is eternal and unopposed to cows and heaven. 
Just as somlata grows when it is first irrigated with water and then squeezes the juice and drinks it, giving pleasure to the mind like a sevika, similarly the deserts also make people happy. Like a woman, the armaments kiss their shoulders and their hands adorn the handstrong and sword. 
O new fire! You take the help of over-worshiped sacrificial means to bring us across difficult sins. Let our city and earth be extremely wide. Give happiness to our children. 
O yajnaagni! We calm you down with Gayatri, Trishtup, Jagati, Anushtup, Row, Brihati, Yoshik, Kakup verses and lists. Please calm down. (33)
O Dakshina Dravya! May this earth and the vast sky receive you. That is why by accepting you, I should not become inferior to the soul, the soul and the son grandson etc. (8)
O agni, lord of the properties! We target you and praise you in the yajnas. O glorious agni! May we, the desires of food, receive food by your grace and conquer the army of men. 
 We wish to do the welfare of the host world. We praise agni. They are the messengers of the gods in the yajna. We ignite agni in the yajna. They give us happiness and opulence. 
When the host carries havri around like a horse through three gods, here he finds the first part of the nutrition and reports the yajna to the gods. (27)
We admire host ghee and respectfully wear it in this yagna. Brahma listen to this praise. Gau Dev follows this world. The four Vedas are similar to their horns. 
O Indra! My mind is never separated from you and always wishes for you. O Indra Dev, who destroys enemies! Just as the king sits on the throne, in the same way you sit on these Kushas and drink someras in this well-cultured Soma stream. (2)
Like the sun's rays, the somas flowing everywhere, intoxicating, killing enemies, spread out in the spoons and made of spoons, go around the vast and threaded robes. Som does not filter for anyone except Indra. 
O friend God! O Varun Dev! You increase the truth. We your sons take in this Somerus urn for both of you. Please consume somers. (9)
O herb named Sadapushpa! This man sees and knows how to overcome the cause of fear coming from being the one who wears your gem, the cause of the present fear and the cause of fear in the future. It sees all beings living in heaven, space and earth due to gem wearing. (1)
Khuva, the guest's hand, his prana stupa i.e. the pillar of tying the sacrificial animal and taking chutney while eating is the word. (5)
We will conquer the area with the help of the brother-in-law. They make us happy in the same way by providing confirmation to our cows and horses. 
In the yajnas that are adorned on earth, havi is provided for the gods. On this earth, the dead creatures live their lives with food and water. This earth gives us life and life and makes us alive till old age. (22)
The methodically illuminated agnis and the present agnis in the materials produced should make this holy host, who considers Prajapati as a deity, eager for the yajna work happily. In this world, those agnis make the host complete and do not let him turn away from the yajna work. (12)
Agni Dev, who receives praises including ghee and havya food, comes from the front. (4)
He who knows Brahman directly, his knots are the sambhar and the verses are his followers. (1)
Having hundreds of holy forms and pleasing human beings through his food, the water god indradi enters the place of the gods also. They do not destroy Indra's yajnakarmas. O adhwaryujano! Perform havan of the havan with ghee for Sindhu. 
O act! Just as the wind uproots the trees, so crush the enemies. The songs of those enemies, horses and men should not remain. Go to your makers and make them childless. (17)
I do not consider this yajna worthy of the gods of heaven and earth. I don't even think of it as the same as yajnas edited by myself or by others. Let the rituals of the atiyaz be extremely undeserved and let all the mountains torment him. 
May the night be sweet. Usha is sweet. The earth is honey. Raj is sweet. Please bless our Father to be be honey in heaven. (28)
O Indra! By becoming ignorant of god's friendship like you, let us not stop squeezing somras. We will sit in one place after squeezing the somras. 
O perspiration! You take the cloud of water up and rain it down. The rivers flowed eastwards with water. Make the earth-sky wet with water. There should be good potable water for cows. 
O Indra! You are the king of the east direction. O Indra who killed the vritra demon! You are also the swami of the north direction and the hantras of the shanrus. Be present in our southern part at the time of war when you are called by us to fulfill our desires. (3)
Hey Mon! You will free and give us a lot of food with cows, many offspring, horses and the wealth you have received in the war. 
O agni! Please rekindle aditya, rudra, basu. Agni is the leader of wealth. May the host with that yajna please light you up again and again. With those ghee, you should be pleased to increase your body and fulfill the wishes of your host. (44)
O adhwaryujano! From here go to the water-filled ocean and do the home of the grandson of the waters, that is, the god of agni. They agni today to provide you waves of extremely pure water you squeeze the sweet somras for them. 
Even in the lap of water that remains diagonally in the clouds, the agni burning upwards shines and grows brightly. Both the earth and the sky are afraid of the agni produced by the skin and come close to the forbearing agni and serve. 
O swollen Mon! Destroy all the fuss you caused by monsters. O mon of deeds! You sat on the kushas. 
O Indra! I squeeze somras for you in the midst of humans. You come to Somers and drink it. 
O you who have the headstrong, the rich and powerful Indra! It's mon delicious. You come. Milk-curd has been mixed in the mon. You come. These stotas call you in front of you at this time. 
O digestive! Cut into five parts, take this goat out of the batloi with the help of a ladle held with the help of your five fingers and put it on the kushas. Keep the cooked head of this goat divided into five parts in the east direction and place the right part of its body in the south direction. (7)
Cows unworthy of violence, make milk divine by mixing it with calf-like Som for Indra's drink. 
When prajapati's pranarup devas created virat purusha with resolve, in how many ways did they create him? What are their faces, arms, hearts and feet called? 
O son! You are stronger and more beautiful than Anaras. You go to heaven near the Psalmist God by the inspiration of your psalm. Follow the religion you have edited, the dominant and the true fruit. You follow the indradi devas and the sun. 
It wraps its arms like a snake. Removes the blow of pratyacha. The learned man protects everyone from all sides. Veer kills all the enemies and protects them. (51)
 O agni! Streams treat you like a mother. You are clothed in the womb. Plants hold you in the womb and reveal to the world. 
O son! Give gold to the monk. (5)
O Indra! You had vibrated the land that had risen above the vast sky and killed the Shambar Asura with the destructive force. You led the joyful and cheerful mind to the bright-edged and bright vanwar towards the elusive Asura group. 
O enemy! I have spread these death traps. You can't get rid of them by crossing them. This code should communicate this enemy army in thousands. (16)
O adhwaryu! Worship the waters that, by the command of Indra, who fights for water, want to fall into many streams and meet in the Somras, who is the creator and protector of the world and who grows in one place with The Soma. 
O enemy! If you kill our cows, horses and helping servants, I will kill you with lead. You will not be able to kill my heroes. (4)
Which is the richa between the richas which is connected from the front and back? Which is connected to all sides and in all ways. With whose help the yajna was expanded on the east side, I ask you about that. (10)
We call Pusha and Indra to us for our great well-being in the same way as Sarathi draws the reins. 
The wise stotas experience joy along with indra, the godly man who removes the vrithradi, the chooseable, the weak yakak, the strong, the divine water and the grandmother of heaven, Indra. Indra had donated this earth and sky. 
May the wives of god protect us by longing for our praises. Let them protect us to get sons and food. Oh, ladies! Whether you live on earth or in the sky, but give us happiness. 
Arjun asked: Why is a person impelled to commit sinful acts, even unwillingly, as if by force, O descendent of Vrishni (Krishna)?
 Pure Someras, refined by many methods, is reaching Indra's stomach. This somerus is well digested in Indra's stomach. Just as he meditates with young women, Somaras is distinguished in the urn from hundreds of passages. 
This agni will store your bodies in heaven. At that time you will be in heaven in this form under the influence of Pakva Odan. The child born of you will also get the power of vision and the same kind of radiance. This verbal yajna will also be worthy of agni in the same way. (2)
You saved the chariot from the disturbance around, extinguished the fire set by the asuras to burn the sage Atri with cold water, made the cow of The Shanyu a milch and gave a long life to the sage Vrandan. 
Grow up with angerless eyes and become the one who does not kill your husband. Be benevolent to animals, well-intentioned and sharp. Be a devotee and a sukhkarini of the gods, and do good to our human beings and animals. 
The botanical forms that know our deeds are present near the agni. They cook the havya properly with special types of karmas. Let the divine agni called Shamita be taken close to the gods knowing that the divine agni is well purified in three ways. 
We worship the host, the masters of the eternal people, the revolutionaries, the enemies, the wish-givers, the destinations of the hymns, the maker of food and the radiant agni to gain wealth. 
Indra, who is famous everywhere and has given food to the devotees of Havan, has done all these things. 
I shall now describe to you the different paths of passing away from this world, O best of the Bharatas, one of which leads to liberation and the other leads to rebirth. Those who know the Supreme Brahman, and who depart from this world, during the six months of the sun’s northern course, the bright fortnight of the moon, and the bright part of the day, attain the supreme destination. The practitioners of Vedic rituals, who pass away during the six months of the sun’s southern course, the dark fortnight of the moon, the time of smoke, the night, attain the celestial abodes. After enjoying celestial pleasures, they again return to the earth. These two, bright and dark paths, always exist in this world. The way of light leads to liberation and the way of darkness leads to rebirth.
Like a child, this agni moves forward on the mother of the earth, wishing for great vines and their roots. They get the dried trees in the earth's dock like ripe food and burn the trees with their own flames. 
According to the yajna, a man named Narayan climbed on heaven with his three feet. The fourth stage of them appears repeatedly in this area. This fourth stage is prevalent in humans, animals etc. who eat and gods, trees etc. who do not eat. (2)
"O Indrani! I can't be happy without my friend Vrisakapi. The one who pleases him goes to the gods. Indra is the best." 
They are sitting destroying the horns. (10)
O Indra! Give me a happy house and drive away the forces of violence from here. (1)
The desert wife with scattered hair serves them for the sake of the electricity meet. Just as the daughter of the Sun rode on the chariot of the Ashwinikumars, so the fickle lightning with a bright body sits on the chariot of the maruts and comes to the place of yajna. 
O Indra! The vast mighty and wide earth and the sky everywhere pleased you after the revolution. After this, you killed the present and adorned asura with the great vritra and dropped it into the water. 
 O friend, sir! Praise Som for increasing happiness. Praise Som while you filter. You decorate them with lust like decorating the child. 
Hey Ritvijo! You are the masters of the human beings, the bright, the holy, the sanctifying others, the illuminating body, and you must possess the omniscient agni. They distribute the money collected by the gods among us. 
O Ritvijo! You people call the meritorious Indra, who lives in heaven, to help the king. The devas have made Indra very powerful through Gayatri and Brihati verses and Indra's Sautramani Yagya. (2)
O agni! Give us a lot of money to search for cows. O agni that enriches! Make us rich. 
You are a disease preventive. You are like a mother. You are a deworming agent. Please make man powerful like food. (83)
Offer sacrifices in his name for som to be brought by car and sitting on the seat. Sacrifice in his name for the Som located in Agindra. Sacrifice for Indra Dev in his name or sacrifice in his name for the som being taken by his name. (56)
O glorious and inimitable agni! In all the yagnas, the present host which you make free from sin and equipped with the force of welfare, prospers. Let us, who praise you, have the wealth of the sons and grandsons. 
From these kings, the sages Nanav, Parthya and Mayav soon asked for seventy-seven cows. 
O Supreme Man! Half a month side and month reduces age. Please, dear ones, day and night to remove your sorrows. (41)
You are Vāyu (the god of wind), Yamraj (the god of death), Agni (the god of fire), Varuṇ (the god of water), and Chandra (the moon-God). You are the creator Brahma, and the great-grandfather of all beings. I offer my salutations unto you a thousand times, again and yet again!
O agni! You are the ones to create different forms. You are Varun Dev's navel. You are born in the higher world, glorified and the most Vyomwasi. You are the welfare of thousands. Don't indulge in any kind of violence. (44)
That Supreme Being pervades all territories. It also pervades the east and the end. It exists in those who have originated. The book is also present in the beings that are being born. The same will prevail among those born. He is omnipresent in all. (4)
O Indra! Your personalities are going to protect the host like us and bear fruit quickly. 
O agni! You worship vasus, rudras and adityas in this ritual. You should also worship those who perform Shobhan Yajna, those who produce prajapati manu and water. 
 O Mon! The spirit with which the host praises you, please sit on the seat of Kush in the yagna with the same dear feeling. 
O Rainer Indra! With your help we will conquer the enemies who are challenging in the battle caused by the cows. 
O Indra, lord of the praises and horses! Whether you are in a distant heaven, in another place or anywhere in your home, come to this yagna to protect us with the maruts. 
Whether king Asamati take the sword in the hands or not, He defeat his enemies in battle in the same way that the lion kills the buffaloes. 
When somras are mixed with cow's milk, all the gods are drunk with the mighty Mon. 
Through which karma does a man attain the compatibility of the gods and which karma makes the goddess compatible with the people. This man does not become kshatra through this action and by what karma is he called kshatra? (22)
Devgan, you are the master of food. Please inspire us to donate food. The gods should continue to bear fruition according to the season. (33)
Indra is seated in Angaang, Pranapran b Udan. Please protect all this. May Indra's power to protect all of them. Please may the power of God protect all of them. May God be pleased to do good to our friends. May God bless our parents with joy. (20)
The man who does not leave the agni of kravyad is entitled to decay by taking his eldest son and his wealth. (35)
I am confused about my duty, and am besieged with anxiety and faintheartedness. I am your disciple, and am surrendered to you. Please instruct me for certain what is best for me.
The agnis bend the vegetation through their incendiary tongues and beautify the forests by eating them through their sharpness. 
The poison that is in the sun, in the earth and in the herbs, and the poison of the tubers should be completely destroyed. (22)
O Indra with horses named Hari! Drink the somras squeezed by the sacrificial humans and cleaned in the water and fill your stomach. Increase your item from the soma that the stones have sewn for you and accept the praises. 
O Indra Dev! The ultimate (extreme) distant place for you is not too far away. You plough horses called Hari and please come like Hari(horse). We pray to you for your stability and strength. Yagya is being performed in the morning and evening. This stone is to squeeze som. It is meant to ignite the samidha agni. (19)
Just as birds resort to trees with sociable leaves, so do drunkards and loaded in characters go to Som Indra. Indra's face begins to glow from Som's intoxication. Indra give the perfect light called the Sun to humans. 
O many doers and omniscient agni! Listen to the call of the present like the sages named Priyamedha, Atri, Virup and Angira. 
This stotao! Praise the agni of the best of the givers, the yajnaswami, the great and the brightest. 
The streams of water become new by being surrounded by the sun's rays in their place of origin, the Sun. At the same time, due to the fire specially held in the lap of water, people drink water like nectar. Fire meets water as electricity. 
O Varuna! Keep your good, medium and inferior loops away from us. Let us serve you free from your clutches and no one should do us violence. (69)
 O Indra! You are very powerful. You give strength to our organs, give us such power that we can conquer all our enemies together. 
O Indra! Just as a girl who wants to be with her parents till death asks for a share from her father's family, I am also asking you for money. Reveal that wealth, calculate it, and complete it. Give money for the indulgence of my body. So that I can welcome these hymns. 
 Just as the warriors offer a string on the bow, the host filters the somras. Soma is the one who defeats the enemies and is revered. Someras is made better by mixing cow's milk. 
 O agni! You are the doer of yajna. You are endowed with specific consciousness. You are the master of immense wealth. We worship you. Please give us glory, good fortune, food and wealth. 
O Mon, admirable by the praises, green in color, poured into milk and being holy! You give food and wealth to the host. 
O agni! Let the sacrifices of havi and ghee reach you, lose your mind. Please accept the memories presented by us. (4)
 Suitably assembled worshippers worship Soma. Green soma is crushed with stones for Indra to drink. 
The host begged Indra with ten fingers. Indra poured water from the cloud through three kinds of rays in the sky. 
O Savita Dev! Indra is the only god among us. Make us higher than the mountains, and give all these hosts the dwelling place of the house. Thus they will be in your rule while walking and obey you. 
O spinach agni! We know your defense at this time as before. At that time we ask you for happiness. 
 O Mon! You provide all kinds of splendour for us from all sides. Please shower thousands of streams. 
O Indra praised by many! You alone are great and slayer of enemies. Except Indra, no one can slay. 
Hota performed yagna for Ida, Saraswati and Bharati. Hota performed yagna for the three goddesses. These three goddesses obey indra dev to wear the three seasons in the three worlds. These three goddesses are medicinal. All three goddesses are lustful. Please the host to perform yajna for them. (8)
O Indra admired by many! Wish to drink the seeker of yajna and squeezed soma. You fill this mon in your abdomen. (4)
The Kuyava asura, who knows the wealth of others, himself hijacks the wealth and steals the water that is fennel by staying in the water. Two women of Kuyava who bathe in stolen water were destroyed in the deep waters of the river named Shifa. 
Hey Varun! May we be fortunate to be well-meditated, praised and served by you. Just as the agni ignites when the rays of the ushas come, so may we be illuminated, praising you every day. 
The body, the doer, the various senses, the many kinds of efforts, and Divine Providence—these are the five factors of action.
The Stotaganas raise and permeate Indra, the best of those who bear fruit to the host through yajnas and drink somras, through somas and hymns. 
I am the Indra who hit Navavasattva and Brihadratha like Vritra. I had driven out both the growing and famous asuras from the bright realm. 
 O Indra! You are a knower. You work according to the season. Your famous name is Indra. We worship you. 
Yups containing wooden pieces and devoid of thorns appear beautiful on earth in such a way as the horns of animals. Protect us in yupa wars by listening to the praises made by the ritvijas in the yajna. 
Taking the bow from the hand of the deceased Kshatriya, I should be sharp and strong. O bow! Come before us in this living world and bring us money to give. (60)
May the sacrificial davapathis, like the fathers of happy praise and the fathers and mothers of the gods, protect us. May the god who gives the abode and the adornments follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot away from the high path below. 
O vampire! Cut your neck rudra dev. O yatudhana! Destroy the bones of your back. You should combine the medicines with all kinds of power with death. (2)
O Lord Indra! You kill our enemies and lowly ones. Those who want to give us slavery and darkness. You take them into darkness. You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev. You stay here. This is your native place, you stay here. (44)
A person whose purulent organs hang between the thighs may not be able to have sex. The person may be able to have sex, whose hair-bearing purulent peritoneum expands while sleeping. Indra is the best." 
The Stotabandhu, who crossed the Dasapavittra made of sheep's hair and played in the water, is well praised by The Stotabandhu and describes the qualities of Som through the words. 
O master of crooked demons and his retainer! You have sent demons and demons who bring impoverishment towards us, let them return from us. Let the weapons you have also return. Your retainer thieves also go away. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to us. You eat his meat. (4)
Those who wish for the gods, who wish for the chariots, resorted to the gates in the yajna, the adhwaryugans irrigate the ancient juhu and upabhriti in the yajna with ghee like a river. They lick agni in the same way that a cow licks its calf. 
Salutations for located in the pasture. Salutations for located in the enclosure. Salutations for the position in the bed. Salutations for located in the house. Salutations for those located in the heart. Salutations for being located in the difficult path. Salutations to the cave built by cutting it located in the depths. (44)
This visible earth is the ability to cook the above odan while being cooked and The dulok is the object of covering it. (11)
O leader of the yajna, Ashchenikumaro! I Ghosha, daughter of King Ghanbivan, run around and talk to you and ask about you. Stay with me day and night and get my nephew out of here with a horse and a chariot. 
O Indra! Our yajna increases yours. Our yajna is dear to you because of the som being squeezed. O Indra worthy of yajna! Protect the host by yajna. It protects your thunderbolt while killing the vritra. 
The mountain is the plashi (small intestine) of the bull, the Ira is its large intestine and the arrogant god of hunger is its womb.  (12)
 O agni! You give us happiness. You are great and dynamic. You come here to sit on the seat of Kush 
Well-loaded horses carry the southpaper. For that one gets the well-made chariot, in battle the devas protect the giver. He conquers the enemies. 
Just as Brahmins and Kshatriyas are neither afraid of anyone, nor apprehensive nor destroyed, O my life! Similarly, don't be afraid of anyone. (4)
O Aryama, friend and Varun! Your path is smooth, smooth and beautiful. Hey Adityagan! Lead us down the same path, speak sweet words and give us indestructible happiness. 
Being pure, the rays of the motionless and the knowledge of the present Mon move around. The green-coloured and situated Som stops at Dronakalash when he goes to cover the Dashapavittra. 
O Indra! Those who called the chiefs and the gods went to heaven separately by your grace, they did the works of praise by others. Those who could not board the boat in the form of yajna, they remain sinful, indebted and lowly. 
The Supreme Father raised the gods of king, agni etc. for us. We worship those deities at the beginning of the yajna. Swaha for Aditya Devta. Swaha for The God of Vishnu. Swaha to the Sun God. Swaha for Brahma Devta Swaha for Brihaspati Dev. (26)
The fingers take the mon to the squeezing point and squeeze it. Somrup Madhu lives in three places and is the destroyer of the enemies. 
O fire! Just as the herder takes over animals by his power, so you are the masters of the present beings in the sky and on earth. That is why those with wide splendor, hiranyamaya, shobhan words, shvaitavarna and the famous dyawapatrithvi come to the yajna. 
In this yajna worthy of service, our vanis should be associated with Someras and worship Indra while praising him. (1)
You are the land itself, the superior land, the ray land and the dominating land. We orbit according to the orbit of the sun. (26)
 O agni! No one can defeat the strong hero whom you have strengthened. 
Oh my god! Where are the sun and moon, the guardians of the world, live when you cover all living beings with clouds? Destroy the demons etc. who hold your hand. Whoever stops you with a strong voice, scare him in excess. 
O Maruto! Yours are sharply furious and force-located. You become wise. 
The meritorious have left out seven limitations. The one who does one of these things also achieves sin. The agnis that prevent humans from sin live in the nearby human world, in the place where the sun radiates are scattered, and in the waters. 
O act! The one who practices abhichar has placed you in the agni of garhapatya or in the yagyashala. We return you to him who sent you. (5)
O earth! It's part of you. You accept it. Swaha for Mother Earth. Swaha for agni leading in the east direction. Swaha for Yama Dev, who leads the southern direction. Swaha for the world in the west direction. Swaha for friends and Varuna Devas or Marudganas leading the north direction. Swaha for Soma above and in paradise. Swaha for all the gods. (35)
O God! Provide happiness for us with the same force with which you combine the power of enemies with you. (3)
O mighty Indra! I, Vajra Rishi, have come to you on foot with the desire to give you great glory. You come near me and do good to me and give me all the things like food, juice, shobhan-niwas etc. 
O Jupiter! Destroy the sons of the asuras who are as angry as thunderbolts and who lock them with weapons. O Indra! Just as you destroyed our enemies in ancient times, so destroy your enemies at this time. 
Savita Dev present cooked food from the front to our rikauri and somerus squeezing host. Let us bless the gods with it. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
He lives far away from the one who considers himself complete and runs away from the one who considers himself inferior. Such a great God i.e. God is prevalent among the world. The sustainer of the nation serves it. (15)
While wishing for food, we want the gift of the wealth of the stunning Savita Dev by her praise. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! I praise you with my beautiful intellect so that I may gain great strength and welfare that subdues human beings. (5)
You are the one who makes it holy. Please make us omniscient with your purity today, you yourself are pure. Please make us holy. (42)
Oh, God! The path by which our friends go to the girl's father, the path should be staggerless and simple. May the Gods named Aryama and Bhaga take us well. Husband and wife should be well together. 
O wife! May my and your eyes be as sweet as honey, that is, we are attached to each other. The front of our eyes should be equipped with mascara. Make me heartbroken, that is, try to make me dear to you. We both have the same mind. (1)
O agni! You are a homegiver, a wealth giver, a handsome and a desired fruit giver. You are as bright as Savita Dev. There are religions of truth. Indra is going to remain stable like Dev in the war. (66)
Small stones are getting mixed together to beautify the big stone. These stones use their power towards the Soma who showers juice. 
O father! Salutations for your food or strength. O father! Hello to your juice and food. (81)
 Our salutations to the deities revered from the beginning in the yajna. Greetings to friend deities Please have hundreds of verses to reach the gods. 
 O Indra! By your grace, we become happy to be rich. May your grace be kind to our cows too. They should also become more food and milk givers. 
 O agni! You are the master of the house. We are the hotas 
Banaspati Dev is the god of gods and the deva of fruits with golden leaves. The plant god Ashwini Kumars and Saraswati Devi found Indra Dev with good sweet fruit. Indra dev was made to have strength and strength. Ashwini Kumars established vision in the eyes of Indra Dev. Hold money for us. May the hosts who want to earn money please perform a welfare yajna for him. (56)
Oh, God! I praise your excellent guest Fire through mantras, hurrying and being pleased with you. Shobhan Kirti Sampatra Varun Dev became us and deny the enemies and become the annadata for us. 
Being pure, they give thousands of types of food containing cows to the Som Stotas. 
O animal god associated with the yajna! You are the protector of water and the divine qualities. Please always be happy. May yajnapati be blessed by god's grace. May our lives be full of air. We should follow sacrificial discipline. (10)
O agni! Eat the well-given puradosh when the day is hidden. O son of strength, agni! You are contained in yajna. 
The Sun God has attained the rise with great light. They have taken shelter from the glory by removing darkness. Aditi's brave son Aditya i.e. Sun is the one with divine light. He is the one who has published bhuvanas. (9)
Here, vampires with wide eyes, thin thighs and no feet should become without women. O mustard medicine! You drop them facing down. Destroy the uncontrolled vampires who want to subdue this husband's pregnant woman. (16)
The fingers that wish and dwell together please the agni that desires to be happy in the same way that a married woman pleases her husband. Just as the Sun rays serve Usha, who first wore the Krishnavarna, the fingers serve the revered agni with anjalibandhan. 
May your psalm and deeds rain the desires of the sky and the earth. You get hundreds of stotras with cow worship by doing sompan. (9)
O Pitro! All of you kneel on the earth at my right hand, and praise this yajna. We sin by mistake because of being men. Don't do us violence because of any sin. 
Useful to all gods, but the portion of the pusha is brought before the fast-moving horse. Using this goat with a horse, make a tasty food form for the skin god. 
Such people, having given up attachment to the fruits of their actions, are always satisfied and not dependent on external things. Despite engaging in activities, they do not do anything at all.
O Savita! The hosts who squeeze the lucky somras three times a day for your sake, indra, earth, sky, watery indus and aditi with adityas, give us wealth along with that host as well as us. 
Dakshina gives horses, cows and gold that pleases the mind. The southerly gives the soul-like food. The learned person makes dakshina a means of defense like armor. 
O Indra! Increasing those who perform yajnakarma, the hymns and hymns increase you to get wealth and strength. 
I praise the leader of heaven and Lord Ashwinikumaras of Bhuvan and call them by praising them with mantras. They immediately remove the enemies and remove the darkness that covers the earth at the end of the night. 
The arrows that are being released by the enemies from the bow or those who are safe in the quiver to release the arrows, they should stay away from us. Those who are divine and human weapons, they should go and pierce our enemies. (2)
O God Indra! In our food-enhancing yajna, you come with horses with a happy heart. We take the disgusting food in the form of a havid form and call you again and again with praises instead of drinking the mon. 
Those whose vision is never inferior, those who are the sustainers and glorious of the earth, the sun pervades all sides of the world. He is the seer of the world, highly knowledgeable and revered. Listen to my words in such a sun. (44)
 O Indra! You are praiseworthy of trichacha 
O Indra! When war is present to get wealth, on the occasion of getting food, you should cooperate with us to destroy sins and enemies. (7)
The cow came close to me in all ways, shouting for its calf, following the wealth and wishing for its calf with all its heart. May this cow give milk for the Ashchinikumaras and increase its family for our good fortune. (8)
Indra said, "All the yajnakarmas and praises are mine. Mon placed in front is mine. When I throw my powerful thunderbolt, it never fails. Hosts pray to me. The mantras of the Rigveda wish me only. These horses named Hari bear me to receive the havi." 
O bright and bright flames! We call you the best and the yajan-worthy of the angiras by means of meditation and pleasing mantras to have mercy on the host. You call upon the gods like the sun that runs all over. Your flames are as wide as the hair. Let the host people please you to get the desired fruit. You are a rainfeder. 
O Indra! Give us more wealth along with cows and food. This wealth should be so vast that it does not run out even if it is spent throughout the entire life. 
O agni! Even if you are alone, it is as if you are the lord of the gods. O agni as a bridge! There is water all around you. You kill all enemies. 
May The Worship, who knows our devotion, possesses immortal animals and is the protector of the whole world, deliver you in this world. Give it to the gods who give you money. 
I have spoken new hymns like my father Mandhata and Sage Angira. They protect us by giving us a three-room house. We are the masters of wealth. 
O very young agni! You follow the hosts who give the greetings. Listen to our praises and protect our children yourself. 
O agni! Make the person who wants to kill us, who wants to weaken us with eyes, mind and mindfulness, make him ordnateless with his armament. May this sacrifice be best for us. (10)
O agni! Re-extinguish what you have burned. A place where there is some water filled and a ripe doob with many branches is standing. 
O root of kapitth! You first of all originated as rasa at the time of churning of waters. You are the essence of all trees and the homogeneous of Soma. You are the semen produced by the mantras of sages like Angira etc. (5)
O god of adornment! We will appear to be born equally as two from your mother's womb. After this, you will prove your brotherhood. 
 O agni! You're going to conquer monsters. You are going to hold scholars. They are going to destroy the shelter of fools. You are going to give opulence to the one who praises. You are a protector like armor. You are the one with golden flames. O man! You worship such agni. 
 O agni! You are revered, worthy of salutation, tamhari and visible. You are well lit with samidhas. 
 O Mon! You give us publishable and giving money. You give us strength and food. Make your holy juice in the matkas after filtering 
May the sages get this sacrifice well. (14)
O agni that carries the hand of the gods! You are admired and ignited by the psalms, man calls you. 
O gods of true praise! You are keeping the truth. You come to our yajna and drink somras with a agnilike tongue. 
The hosts go to the yagna and lay kusha. In the yajna, the stones of somlata kutne do terrible words. Successful, far-wording, rich believers and desireful stones are taken from a house made of stones. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Protect us in the same way that you protected Ankshu's wealth, Agastya's cows and  Saubhri's grain. 
Prepare the successful stone for us the unsettled somras. They set us up in the bright Somayag by the stunning words of praise. The leader of the yajnakarma squeezes the somras in the Ritvij somayagna, hurrying around and speaking hymns. 
 O Mon! The main hosts possess the best intelligence for you about the food force. Please encourage us heroes to 
O Indra! I pull with my hands your ashwaja to bring before me the ashwago named Hari, who joined the chariot with the word and is protected. You give money to brahmins. 
In this yajna, the stones that crush somalta vibrate in such a way that the wolf vibrates the sheep. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the dulok, so go to dulok. 
O Indra, who penetrates the enemy cities! You have extended the ocean by seven rivers like the beautiful and unhindered Ganga, etc., you have given way to ninety-nine rivers for the welfare of gods and human beings. 
In addition to both sat and asat, death, prajapati and subjects are established in the remaining rice after doing uchishta i.e. homa. Varun and Som are also located in it. By his grace, Shri is also located in me. (3)
O Indra! For the host who gives you courage, your means of protection are quickly obtained. (5)
O agni! When the host gives the essence of the earth to the great and the lord god, then the demons skilled in touching, etc., flee knowing you as the human beings. Agni, who is skilled in throwing arrows, throws a raakr arrow at those fleeing demons, etc., with his shantrustish bow, and in his daughter Usha, The Deeptiman Agni Dev establishes his speed. 
O air! Bring the wellnesses from paradise here and drive the chariots with a good speed.  O great air! Add horses with thick armpits to your chariot. 
O Goddess of earth! Please be worthy of our dwelling. You give us happiness. You free us from suffering. Please take away our sins from us and make us holy. (21)
Indra Dev is our friend. We call upon them again and again to protect us. (14)
O jataved agni! Just as you convey charu, purodash etc. to the gods and just as you complete the yajna by keeping knowledge, in the same way, bring the good intellect of the gods about us. May this kind of agni redeem us from sin. (2)
O leader Maruto! Serve King Sudas, just like his father Divodas, and protect the house of Sudas, the son of Pijvan. Sudas's army should be without a sense of disrepair and indestructible. 
O Indra! You are admired, powerful, divine and happy. There is no other god as rich as you. We say this only on the basis of your grace words. (37)
The Guru should say to his disciple thus- "O Devdatta! In addition to the hands with which the previous ritualists consumed this odan, that is, if this odan has been consumed with cosmic hands. If you consume that Brahmaudan with the help of different i.e. cosmic hands, then you will kill Brahmins or you will feel the sin of killing Brahman. As an answer to this, the disciple should say to his guru - I have not consumed this odan by turning face to face, nor have I eaten from the front and have not eaten in front of the soul. I have consumed this odan with the help of seasonal hands. I have taken Odan to where he was supposed to go. This omen is full of all organs, all joints and with complete organs. By this method, which is used to consume this odan. He has all the organs. He becomes full of all joints and has a full body, he is distinguished in the virtuous worlds like heaven etc. (17)
The rainy season is the mother of Som. It enters the water from which it grows, later into it. The one who grows by holding the part of Som water is the same to be squeezed and its juice-like fraction is the first part of Indra. 
Indra is worshiped by gods, dynamic, desired, revered in yajna, invited to Havi, enemy city piedak, destroyer of gonashak and vajrabahu. May Indra Dev be pleased to consume our yajna. (38)
Vrishakpi Dev considered Indra as a god. They are the sustainers of the test and my friends. O Indra! That's why I'm good. (1)
Prayers are being made to the passers for victory—O Dice! You make this gambling game bear fruit for me like a cow that gives milk. Just as the bow throws the arrow away with a string made of tant, so pair me with victory for four-number claims. (9)
We repeatedly invoke Surabhi Putra (calf son of cow) for our welfare. He is as savior as Indra Dev. He is like a god of agni. (13)
In front of the learned stota, the mutually equal, very stable, pleasing and ever-moving form of the maruts may appear quickly. That form appears to fulfill the desire in the form of vegetation in the martylok and once a year, white colored water drips from the sky. 
 O agni! You are cooperative and independent. You protect us and generations with your protective means. You save us from natural outbreaks and evil tendencies. 
These are the friends and Varuna who make the Psalms king! You have possessed the earth and the sky with your brightness. O fast-donating friend and Varun! You elaborate the herbs. Increase the number of cows and pour water. 
Indra sees all our enemies that are spread in all directions. May Indra separate those fears from us, which are going to be derived from all directions and subdirections. (10)
The host keeps giving food to the guests, he is the doer of the wet yajna with the stones that crush the gravas i.e. somalata and the one who completes that yajna. (10)
O agni! What is the way to please your mind towards us? What will be the praise that gives you happiness? Who can host the yajna to suit your ability? With what heart shall we give you a greeting? 
Mixed with milk etc., som holds his juice several times as a womb of the wishing vasathivari. Water is milking the luminous juice. 
 O agni! You are a prajapalak, a marriager, an all-loving, callable and of many names. You are the leader of all of us. We invoke you with mantras. 
Any man who is about to interview the worshipper in this way and obstructs his work, he stops the movement of life in his body. (5)
Who knows fully and who can speak of this creation? What are the reasons for which this creation originated? The devas have originated after the past creation. Who knows how the world appeared, from which it is created? 
O Swami of Wealth Indra! Destroy the enemy form of this child, the worms. Destroy them completely with My fiery words. (2)
O Gods! You are knowledgeable. Please make us knowledgeable too. You be a form of knowledge for us. We sing the virtues of you. You are the guardian of the mind. This yajna is dedicated to the gods. Swaha for you. Please wear this yajna and expand it. (21)
O God of Agni! I open the rope you have made and tied to the patient's cheeks. I open the ropes that bind the patient's waist and bind the patient's legs. O agni! In this sick body, you always get growth. (1)
O agni! You are situated within the vegetation arising from the rain and also in the vegetation with a cold touch. You are located in all beings of the world. You make this man of mine disease-free. (3)
Listen to my words, with a middle voice of arms and thunder, the ajaekpata that holds the doloka, the indus, the waters of the sea, the waters of the sea, the vishvadev and the saraswati with many kinds of intellects. 
O doctor! You are the protector of our soul, apana, eye, ear and speech, the physician of all of you. Please merge your mind. (34)
Oh, God! On the day of the yajna you especially come close to us. On this day, we become well-intentioned, defeat enemies, eliminate hidden enemies and go before the hosts. 
O very powerful and thunderbolt Indra! When you drank the sorcery somras, the stota praised you for the sake of your growth, that is why you, with your power, stood on the earth and expressed your authority by beating a demon named Ahi. 
The sun is on and it has increased a thousand times due to home agni. O bhava! God called Prishnibahu and Sarvam! Kill this enemy army. (17)
O Supreme Power! You are pervading all four directions. You are the navel (center) of the truth. You are the operator and famous of the practice of yajna. Please give us full life. You make us successful and give us all the life with fame. You remove from the hats (haters). You free us from the cycle of birth, you are determined and gracious. (20)
The mons who give all the selectable wealth into the hands of the stotas are the best of all the drugs. 
After this, the same sadaspati 
Just as the poles that drive cows are of small and limited size in number, so were the Bharatvanshis, surrounded by shanrus, were a minority. After this, Vasishta sage became the priest of the Bharatvanshis and the people of the Titsu kings began to grow. 
Ten fingers like women leave the Dasapavitra vessel and serve the som playing in the forest like a powerful horse. 
Yama, who is revolutionary and has good intellect, holds the hymns and ancestors in space with his glory. O Brahmins! You are a friend of all beings. You worship Yama with havi etc. May they make our lives strong. (63)
Water with unlimited speed falls from the sky. The stopping enemy cannot see it. We can see it and see the agni hidden in its middle. 
O Indra! Thus you make us complete with the best wealth. We receive your great kindness. Give us the people of the good that have the food containing the brave sons and protect us from all the welfare resources. 
O Marudgano! You are going to eat the violence of enemies. O Marudagano! You are going to eat curd mixed sattu. (44)
O yellow mustard! Just as flowers are broken from the tree and made a garland of them and worn to the beloved, in the same way, you should always wear this woman's infertility, the misfortune of the death of children, the sorrow that always arises, sin or the sorrows of their resulting, as a garland of gold, which she hates. (26)
O sun! You are shukla i.e. very bright and you are bright. The kind of light you are full of, I worship your same light full sense. (20)
We will soon worship savita dev who has risen. Let man praise the sun at this time i.e. in the morning and in the third suture. The Savitas who provide blood to human beings, give us the best wealth in this yagna. 
O holy agni! Make the body of our sons without sin by the one who purifies you that is present among the bright rays. 
O enemy-slayer Indra! At the time you send all kinds of food, you will save the hosts somras using thousands of defenses. The divinely virtuous and well-wishing mother has given birth to you. 
 Somers is refined with a sieve and squeezed into a vessel. When Soma goes into the vessel while making a sound, it seems as if he is invoking the gods. 
O Lord indra of more grain! When you killed the invading Vritra for sleeping on the earth, the sky trembled with your anger and thunderbolt.
These women should be full of beautiful husbands. They should not be widows. They should be devoid of tears and full of tears. They should wear beautiful ornaments and humans should remain in the vagina for childbirth. (31)
Hey friend and Varun! The stepless usha comes before the humans with feet. It's because of you, who knows that? The sun, the son of both of you, carries the burden of fulfilling the truth and resisting the untruth. 
Self-essence is one. It is not visible due to being subtle even from the hair. The god who embraces this soul, that is, God, is dear to me. (25)
O Agni who knows all! You begin the work of destroying demons, for you are born to fulfill our purpose. O agni! You become our messengers and drive away demons. (6)
O Yajna-carrying, aware and devabhishi Som! You, the one who drips the juice, filter it from the dashapavitra and fall into the dronakalash. 
 O Mon! You are holy and your milch songs are divine. The streams of their milk reach the dronalash rapidly. Sages consume pure somersa. Deliver its streams from space to the kitchenware. 
O people who conquer enemies and desire success! Just as the Devas were fascinated by the maya of the asuras, so you are fascinated by the evils cast by the enemies. Just as the monkey drives away the dogs, so drive away the rags you wear away. (4)
May agni, garam, arka, sun, prana, ashwamedha, prithvi, aditi and diti be pleased to be compatible with us. May the fingers, power and directions of the great man in heaven be favorable to us with yajna. May this yajna be fully fruitful. (22)
Savita Dev is gold-handed and extraordinary. They inspire the sun between both heaven and earthland. They destroy diseases and darkness. The sun illuminates both the worlds with its beauty. (25)
The wishing, the more worded and the cleansing Mon varshak goes to the cow's white milk for Indra's drink. The somas with hymns, the knowers of praises and the semen with a lot of semen, cross the dasapavittra with subtle holes through thousands of ways without violence and go to Dronakalash. 
In the yajnas on Yajjaniya days, som is squeezed for the brave deserts and hymns are recited to please them. 
They bring the moving horses thunderboldly, happy and praiseworthy Indra to our yagna by sitting in the chariot. In the yagnas for this Kant Indra, the green somras are squeezed in large quantities. 
O Indra! Through yajnas, praises and sacrifices, we ask you for the money we want. O karma-keeper Indra! You protect all the deeds. You become great by giving us the best money when you climb the special intoxication of Someras. 
O agni! The sage Atharva had churned you on the lotus letter that holds the whole world like shisha. 
They are the creators of the earth and the sky just like agni humans. He is adorned with fame and has given various tastes to the creatures. They enter their altar-like vagina and digest the purodash etc. obtained. 
They are the same, uniform and with countless colours, spreading light through their radiant body and destroying the great darkness with their rays. 
O Shataudana Gau! Your leather is unworthy of violence! May your hair always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (24)
In that body is the God who created it in the form of soul. The God who created this strange world, even better than that construction work, made holes in the form of the body, eyes, ears, etc. of the man at the time of construction, then that construction god made that male body a house and entered it. (18)
The sage named Brihaddiva happily speaks these mantras for Indra. Indra, who is the chief among the sages and attains heaven, defeats the great and self-lit mountains with his own strength and opens all the doors closed by the force asura. 
O agni! The child through which you take thousands of types of opulence to the gods, in order to attain heaven, convey this sacrifice of ours to the gods through the same force. (17)
Afnavan and other Bhriguvanshi sages had lit the agni in the forests and the lord of all the subjects. They are the ones who call the gods, the most sacrificial performers, the praises by the ritvijas in the yagyas and the best agni yajnas among the devas. 
Those who carry the yajnaadi are present in the som space and are hard-rubbed by the hands and are located in the characters called Chamu. 
The space between heaven and earth and all the directions are pervaded by you alone. Seeing your wondrous and terrible form, I see the three worlds trembling in fear, O Greatest of all beings.
 O Indra! You are radiant. With the help of horses, you came from heaven to earth to listen to the prayers of Kanva Rishi. You will also get happiness in our world. You come here for some time to stay here. 
I am the Vajra (thunderbolt) amongst weapons and Kamadhenu amongst the cows. I am Kaamdev, the god of love, amongst all causes for procreation; amongst serpents I am Vasuki.
The rivers replied, "Indra, who carried the thunder in his hand, had  flowed both of us rivers by killing the vartra that stopped the rivers. The inspiring, brave-handed and brilliant Indra of the whole world has led us to the ocean. Obeying him, we flow with water towards ocean." 
The sun absorbs water through its rays, consumes the water that has gone near it and the rain water is rained on everyone's heads by its rays. The Sun is located in its circle and throws away its vertical rays and follows the wide light on the earth with a group of rays. 
O man! Just as the archer takes off the string mounted on the bow, so I remove anger from your heart. (1)
O enemy-loving, wise and interconnected aschinikumaro! You created the agni by aranimanthan. O true form Ashwinikumaro! On hearing the praise of Vimad, you lit the agni by churning arani mathkar. 
Worthy of yajna and with colourful rays, Savita rode on a huge chariot adorned with golden idols and with gold nails to destroy the darkness in the people with her brightness. 
O patient man! I get tuberculosis out of your thighs, from the knees, from the lower parts of the knees, from the toes of the feet, from the waist, from the buttocks and in the kidneys. (5)
Without tuberculosis, I fill the waters that destroy tuberculosis and enter the houses with nectar-filled agni. (23)
Soma and Pusha are seated in the chariot of the gods. They are able to sit in this chariot. They are going to encourage all human beings. 
This is the agni! No one can stop the flames like your teeth, so you grow. It was agni! You should perform havan of our desire and give us more money to choose. 
O mighty! You also make us strong with your strength. Give us the velocity that is in your heart, the sight is in the bird's flying and the speed of the wind. You make us strong so that we can go beyond the enemies. O conqueror of food! You give us strong food. We can smell the part of Jupiter with the desire for food. (9)
We wash away the sin we committed on the asandi i.e. on the chair, on the bed, on the head and the weapon and the violent use we made in our marriage. (65)
Just as gastritis enables the eyes etc. to do their work by delivering juice made of food to the senses and the moon prana nourishes all souls with nectar juice, in the same way, I give this brahmachari a long life by separating it from the productive sins of diseases etc. and tuberculosis. (6)
Just as Pala destroys the lotus leaves, so the cows stolen by the force monster are taken away by Jupiter. It was not possible to be done by another, and no one can imitate it. With this work, the sun and moon began to rise in the day and night. 
O Indra and Agni who hear the praises and hear the praises! Please come to drink this somras, pleased with our praises. 
Water and ground rice are mixed. Then it is cooked in the agni. Purodash (tikia cooked to sacrifice in the yajna) is made from this action. Purodash makes the host bright and energetic. He further spreads the glory of the host. He is prepared for Agni and Som. Please savita dev cook purodash with the agni of heaven. (22)
We should not leave the ritvijas in the somayag called Indra Madhyahansavana and their swami Indra Midnight Sawan. Let us be situated in the grace and wisdom of the gods while speaking praises that please those gods. (2)
I, wise Brahmin had received a hundred cows and a hundred horses from a devotee named Bulbuth, the protector of cows and horses. O air! All these people are yours. They are happy to be protected by Indra and the gods. 
 Prayers are offered for the holy and deed soma. Just as we are pleased with the service of the servant, so let us please them with special prayers. 
Fires, like grass-eating animals, cut off the waterless and the place filled with grass, wood, etc. Fire is golden-bearded, with bright teeth, great, barrier-free and powerful. 
O Indra praised by many hosts! This Som, which completes the yajna, has been squeezed. Donate this satisfying someras. You drink this Mon full of stomach. (2)
 O Savita! We worship you. You are a poet, truthful and very dear. Your light spreads from earth to space. You are golden light. You keep your grace on those who perform yajna. 
I know the father of this prapanch present in the upper part of this visible prapancha i.e. Satyalok. Due to this world, my place of origin is located in the waters of the ocean. Being the reason for the fast, I publish bhuvanas. I touch heaven with this body. (7)
 Tvashta is the shilpi 
The enlightened sages call those persons wise, whose every action is free from the desire for material pleasures and who have burnt the reactions of work in the fire of divine knowledge.
King Sudas, the son of Pijvan, is adorned with gold ornaments, who walks straight in a high and low place and four horses on earth, carry the cradle vasishtha like a son for the son's glory. 
O Jupiter who follows the gods! You sit in the chariot and go all the way in the war. You are the one who kills demons and hinders enemies. Be the protectors of our bodies by destroying enemies from all sides and committing violence against them. (8)
Just as the earth and the sky were separated to establish the gifts that Tvashta had given in the marriage of her daughter, in the same way, I combine this celibate with the sins causing diseases and sorrows and tuberculosis and long life. (5)
The germs that are located in the mountains, in the forests, in the medicines, in animals and in the water, they have entered our body through wounds or through food. I end up dying of all these types of germs. (5)
The sage Kutsa, who had fallen into the well, called Vrithrahanta and Shachipati Indra to protect him. Let the God who gives abode and adorn us from sins and follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot away from a high and low place. 
Just as a mother attaches her son to the chest, so may Aditi accept my heart-warming and best comforting hymn. We give the praises which are loving, god-giving and pleasing, to friends and to Varuna. 
I speak over and over again to the most great praises of the yellow, lustful and white-clad Rudra. This is the hymn! Worship the stunning Rudra by greetings. I do sankirtan, the bright name of Rudra. 
 O Mon! You are all-loving, all-pervading and haritabh. You attack enemies with armaments. 
O medicine called Neel! The place of your birth is black. You are black in color, so remove the white color of the contaminated organ and the ripening of hair due to leprosy. (3)
From the corner of the Dhruva direction, the devas have made Rudra, who holds the bow, the ritualist of this. (11)
O soul! It has been said that for the one who knows your greatness and the scholar in whom you are distinguished, all the gods offer the nectar in heaven. (18)
O God of Agni! Anger him who hates us or the one we hate with the one you have the power to heat. (1)
Amongst the Rudras know me to be Shankar; amongst the demons I am Kuber. I am Agni amongst the Vasus and Meru amongst the mountains.
O agni! You are foolish. You are revered in the uppermost part of paradise. You are going to increase the nutrition of earth and water. We honor you as the host with the grace of Indra Dev. (14)
The foregoing fire of the devas is known by gayatri verses. They burn when they say the word swaha. 
Savita Dev, the leader of the bright and wealth, inspires wealth for us from all sides. They take on a form of wide motion and give us the money that comes in the enjoyment of human beings at this time. 
O patient! I remove tuberculosis from your heart, from the flesh body close to the heart, from the flesh body called halkshan related to the branch, from the kidneys on both sides, from the spleen and from the liver adjacent to the heart. (3)
The creatures who were angry due to the death of the man illuminated you. That work has been completed, that is why we have illuminated you from you. (5)
 O agni! You are born of forests and messengers of gods. You call the gods for the host who spreads the seat. You are helpful and worthy of worship. 
 O Mon! Milch cows want you to. Brahmins want Som, asking. Sut 
Some of the frogs speak like a cow and some speaks like a goat. One is brown in colour and the other is green. Holding one name, all are of a different form. Frogs appear to say different kinds of words 
O Indra! Your hymn is pronounced with juice. This stotra pleases the streams and the ocean with rainwater. Due to drinking someras from this, your happiness appears. (5)
The glory of Indra is greater than the heavens, the earth and their intermediate realms. Indra is adorned with his swiftness in this abode, skilled in doing all his work, capable of destroying a powerful enemy and adept at fighting. Indra challenges his cloudy form of enemy to war. 
O act! Listen to me this. Go where you came from and who created you. (28)
O Indra, praised by many! While receiving Your grace, let us host overcome poverty due to the cows given by you. Let us remove the hunger of our people with the food you give. By your grace, let us be superior among our like people and defeat our enemies by getting money from the king. (10)
 O agni! You are foolish, heavenly and sustainer of the earth. You keep the water absorbed in you. 
The ritvikritis form agni understands its karma and does the work of the ritvij. We also give enough praises, yagnas and havans by the grace of agni. 
The guest should eat the food of the one about whom he has thought, do not eat the food of the one about whom he is thinking. (7)
O Indra! For the purpose of your greatness, I am giving this great praise, because your grace wisdom is based on my psalm. The Ritvijas have pleased the lord-conqueror Indra with praises to gain growth and wealth. 
It is incomparable and important- earthy! We know you with beautiful births. You protect us. Let us not be the rage of Varuna, the air and the beloved friend of human beings. 
Give us wealth and the ultimate wide house of Indra, Varuna, friends and Ariyama. Let the light of Aditi, which increases the yagna, not be harmful to us. Let us praise Savita Dev. 
Spread the mat first. After this, this woman, who produces the best people on the deer, should worship agni. (23)
O Indra! Pleased with drinking somras, you went to the cities of the invading asuras and broke them down. We describe your same power over and over again. 
O God! You are bright, bright, immortal and protecting the age. You protect our age. You give us grace at the hands of Savita Dev and Ashwinikumar's bahu and Pusha Dev. (1)
The Parabrahma, born as the first radiance, pervaded the original part of the world i.e. from the lower part to the upper part. Jupiter with qualities like charity etc. is the ruler of this world. The bright day originated from the sun with that light. After this, the bright and meritorious Ritvij got involved in his own businesses. (5)
There are four fixed positions of speech i.e. stages. Those who are mystic Brahmins know him. Three of these stages do not move due to being hidden in the cave of intelligence. Humans pronounce the fourth stage of speech. (27)
We all squeeze somers for the sake of the agni that we know the ghosts. May the agni destroy the wealth of those who behave in the spirit towards us. Just as we cross the river with the help of a boat, let the agni make us overcome sorrows and sins. 
I bring the kalash full of waters that are free from tuberculosis and destroy the tuberculosis of my servants to the school. Along with this, I also bring the never-extinguishing agni. (9)
O agni! Even the poor man becomes the master and the richest of the food you have preserved by paying you a gift. 
May the sin that I have committed in the form of violence of those living in space, living on earth and living in heaven, the sin of violence that I have committed by behaving against my parents, this agni served by the householders, free me from those sins and get those worlds which are attained by those who do virtuous deeds. (1)
My beloved body is frightened in my robe, so O vegetation! First you tie the knot of this so that we do not be sad. (50)
Those who call the gods, the masters of the house, the bright and the ones who know all, the agni knows all the birth-holders. In gods and human beings, the most sacrificial and truthful agni should best worship the gods. 
Mons with unlimited strength are squeezed to get the increased grain quicker. 
You produce sinners, welfare men, asuras and medicines. (14)
Hey Rudra! For our sake, you have become pleasant and give us happiness. We greetfully serve the heroic Rudra. The disease and fearlessness that Father Manu had attained, O Rudra! Greetings to you but we also receive them. 
How much more force does Indra gain from his mother and father? Indra has created this world from his father Prajapati and from him he repeatedly gains the strength of the world. The stotas call Indra to give the havi as if the wind inspires the clouds. 
Remove Rudra, the swami of ghosts, and Indra, the demons who are angry, from my house. Indra, keep the vampires living in the lower part of my house pressed with a thunderbolt. (4)
The 10,000 black horses that kill the enemy, the high-speed and the most powerful, pull the wheel of the chariot forward. 
Just as the huge rain soaks the animal group, Indra soaks his beard with a green soma. Indra Then Goes to Shobhan Yajnashala and drinks the stagnated somras there and shakes his beard in such a way that the air shakes the forests 
O Indra! The intoxicating juice of somalata is squeezed in the yagnas of morning, mid-day and evening. You drink it. The same somras have been squeezed for you. You drink it. 
The bright and fortunate King Kurang performed a yagna to get to heaven. In that we found much wealth in addition to a hundred horses with many men. 
Oh, O Surya! You climb a chariot with organized and beautiful wheels with various golden ornaments made by shobhan palash and shalmali trees. You get happiness and nectar from your husband in a place. 
 O Mon! You increase Indra's enthusiasm to kill Vritrasura, who stops water. You complete the urn with your streams. 
That king does not suffer from the disease called Tuberculosis i.e. TB and the curse by others affects him, whose king is permeated by the soothing smell of the drug named Google. (1)
The girl who is swimming on the shore of the ocean has no master. O poverty worthy of sorrow! You sit on it and go the other way. 
Hey Mon! Just as the urn goes into the well to draw water, so do our praises go to you. You are great, so for the sake of our lives, hold this yajna in the same way that people wear a spoon. 
 O yajko 
O Lord of the hosre indra! Come soon to hear our prayers and accept our food in this yajna containing somras. 
 O Indra! Our yagyashala is very close
O Ashwinikumaro! Come as a boat to go across the sea of praise and add horses to your chariot to come to the earth. 
O the native, the abode-giver and the most young agni! Always inspire wealth towards those who sing the beautiful anthem of Mon. 
 O Mon! You are the main base of yajna and the soul of yajna. You are the giver of Godhan, Ashwadhan and Santandhandhan. 
The dripping glistening somras is decorated by the sacrificial hymns in such a way as a horse is decorated for battle. 
Rudra, who was black, dressed in black clothes, violent and fierce, broke the chariot of an asura named Keshi and put it on the earth. We consider Rudra as our protector, the predecessor of other hymns. Salutations to Rudra like this. (18)
O Wajin! You are a money giver. Please rise up to donate good luck. May we be well-minded by your grace. Let's dig the earth. Please install the agni. (21)
Verses that do not attain old age follow the same reason as soon as the bird appears in the form of Usha. Surya's wife Usha knows Jyoti's semen. (12)
Even if the vilest sinners worship me with exclusive devotion, they are to be considered righteous, for they have made the proper resolve.
O husband and wife! I afflict your hearts by instilling mutual love. I annoy your mind in the same way that smoke follows air. Your mind is like this my follower. (2)
O Indra! Give us the water that you gave like a horse to the people of King Nahus as a quick horse. 
O Rudra! Salutations to you in the evening, morning, night and day. O Bhava and Sharva! I salute both of them. (16)
This bright Usha 
Hey Aditya! Remove diseases from us, separate enemies and keep evil spirit away from us. Adityas separate us from sins. 
O agni! Vasishta Sage ignites you. You kill monsters. O Jathaveda! Praise the gods with huge hymns and protect us through means of welfare. 
O fathers! We invite you by sticking on the right knee. Please express your opinion in this entire yajna. Don't you hyp us. Please fathers to come here and protect us. (62)
O disease-free man! I give you old age, that is, I make you live to old age. I protect you from diseases till old age. May that old age benefit you. (7)
The omnipresent God does not involve himself in the sinful or virtuous deeds of anyone. The living entities are deluded because their inner knowledge is covered by ignorance.
Those who perceive with the eyes of knowledge the difference between the body and the knower of the body, and the process of release from material nature, attain the supreme destination.
Indra said, "What I have said in this hymn is true. Let it get you to know. I make two-legged humans and four-legged animals. "He who sends his men to fight against women, I take away his money without war and give it to my devotees." 
O plant named Jangid i.e. herb! You are more powerful. Indra has taken strength in you, that is why O Jangida Ushadhi! Destroy all the diseases and destroy the demons. (9)
O agni! Just as the loader leaves the load in the end, so don't leave us in battle. You win for us the wealth collected by the enemies. 
If a Brahmin's cow is stolen and gifted to someone, it causes defeat. After gifting, it destroys the prosperity of the gift giver. (8)
O Indra! Psalmists first call you by eulogies to drink somerus. The rigoras praise you together. Rudras also praised you ancient. 
Two types of air flow to and beyond the sea. This is the hymn! One air gives you strength and the other destroys your sin. 
I have destroyed all your thighs, feet, knees, anuk, heat and all diseases related to shish. (21)
O God! Leaving this killed animal, make it a way for the host to go to the virtuous worlds through semen. It should also get the meat that is dear to the gods in this animal. (2)
Death is the swami of the people. May he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in prestige, in deeds in resolve and in deeds in the form of blessings. (13)
Those who initiate yajna, desirous of the desired objects and the ancient host serve the agni with shobhanajanam to gain strength. The covering of the whole world, Dyava-Prithvivi, increased the agni in three forms in the three realms with the help of grains related to water. 
The host who donates a sheep with white feet and gives fruit according to folk faith, attains heaven. In heaven, the weak person does not pay a fee by assuming the rule of the strong. (3)
O agni! The charu worthy of yajna i.e. the batloi of cooking havi is located on you. You heat this pure and hot batloi more with your radiance. Brahmins and Indradi Devs, who know the gotra promoter sages, should be satisfied with this batloi by getting their share and heat it more. (16)
I call upon Indra, the best of the deities worthy of knowledge, the one who liberates from sin and is prominent in the sacrifices. I call upon agni and ashwini kumars who shower water. May They give you wisdom, strength and strength with the power of Ashwini Kumar's senses. (4)
I have seen the Varuna that everyone sees. I have seen his chariot walking on earth many times. Varun has accepted my prayers. 
In a nation where a Brahmin's wife is stopped unconscious, those who wish to milk cannot milk even a little milk. (17)
 The host presses and crushes from all sides and removes somersas. He is green and holy. He makes a sound repeatedly falling into the wooden vessel. It is added to cow's milk. Havi is made from this. The hosts praise it. 
Many sons appeared from this mother and sat on her lap. O beautiful woman of welfare! Sit near the agni and adorn all these gods. (25)
We hold this limit for living beings. Let us follow this limit. Let us live a meaningful life with purpose for a hundred years. If death comes in the meantime, then death should create obstacles like mountains in the path of Devgan. (15)
People who go to heaven who get the fruits of yajna do not desire happiness related to sons, animals etc. Those hosts who know the yajna that holds the world and expand it, they go to heaven. (4)
O Indra! Let them accept the famous Rudraputra and the brightest Ashvini Kumar, my praise and yajna. They may also be happy in my yajna like Manu's yajna. They should give money to the subjects and become worthy of yajna. 
O Dhanaswami and Nirmal Varuna! I have become an opponent of duty because of my inability. O Varun with obhavana! Make me happy and have mercy on me. 
I give you all the external things related to me which are in the transit and open territory and which are present in the surrounding houses. (1)
O grandson of the force, Richho! With the desire to see you, the deserts are coming from heaven, fire from the earth, the air from the sky and Varuna from the water. 
The act should be towards its creator as a agni acting against him. Just as the velocity of the water is found cutting the edge and dropping, or the way the chariot turns easily, in the same way, the work meets its creator. (12)
O praise worthy Indra! We are your stota. O Indra who drinks somers! You please us. 
O Indra, the creator of many deeds! You turned the bright edge of balvan vajra towards the destruction of the bandits and to kill the asura named Sahavasu, the son of Narmer, to find a havan in the yagna. You are worthy of praise. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! The old friendship of both of you is serviceable and welfare. O leaders of our sacrifice! Your wealth is in the Jahlavi Ganga. While receiving the happiness and friendship of both of you again and again, we should also be pleased with the intoxicating somerasa. 
 The treated somerus gathers in the vessel from the streams. Vasishtha Rishi mixes Someras in water. 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are situated in the waters and the radiance of Varuna. I display my might in the waters and remove it from the waters. Let the one I hate or the one who hates me be destroyed. Give up life. (33)
From me alone arise the varieties in the qualities amongst humans, such as intellect, knowledge, clarity of thought, forgiveness, truthfulness, control over the senses and mind, joy and sorrow, birth and death, fear and courage, non-violence, equanimity, contentment, austerity, charity, fame, and infamy.
O Brahmaudana! You group all your organs and go where you have to go. O God of Agni! You also make a path worthy of the gods to know this odan. Due to these dev paths and virtuous deeds, we will get the yajna located in the sun system above heaven. (36)
Just as the pond is filled with water, so does the som in Indra's stomach. Indra is present in many yagnas at once. Indra first devoured Som, then distributed his share to the devas in the median savan. 
The guiltless and sweet water of the deadly sun takes on the earth. The sun knows yama's guilt. O great agni! Protect the sun without praying. 
O friend of many, Ashwinikumaro! Bring us food, fame and wealth. 
May the summer season not make us angry and the winter season should not hinder us from trembling. The earth that donates heavily should be drenched with rain. Water should also be a happy factor for this host. Where there is a god called Som, there is always welfare in that country. (2)
O Indra! Save us from the money that eliminates our objections. Just as the all-beneficial friend is glorified, so is indra, who is powered by a fierce force, is glorified to protect us. O mighty, protector, guardian, deathless and hostile Indra! Whatever chariot you like, come on and hinder everyone except us. O enemy! Be an obstacle to the enemy of blasphemy. 
For this woman, Dhata has created folk as a home. This Kalyani has received it. Raise this bride through Ashwinikumar, Aryama, Bhaga and Prajapati children. (13)
I keep those waters pure, sacred and worthy of yajna aside for the hands of the Ritviju Brahmins to wash their hands. O burn! May Indra fulfill my desire with the desire with which I sprinkle you. (5)
O agni of the maruts! You come to drink somras with the Rudraputra Maruts in our Shobhan Yajna. Come near to the praise of my sage Saubhari and be happy to drink somers. 
Agni has taken a place in front of the Rudras and Vasus while carrying the havan and is present in the yagnas to invoke the gods. Those who conquer the wealth of enemies, dieless and brightly worship by the agni hosts, walk like chariots and reach out to the people and repeatedly give the best wealth. 
Just as the horse is massaged in the battlefield, so the words in the yajna, the ones who desire the gods, the best of the gods, and the masters of the praises are made with the som slutis. Like the sisters, ten fingers drive the fruit-carrying Som towards the yajnashala towards the high place of Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
May Dhata Dev and Dharta Varuna give us peace. May the earth with grains give us peace. May the vast diva- May the earth give us peace. May the best praises of the gods give us peace. 
O Sindhu! You met the first Tushtama river to go near the fast-flowing Gomti river. Later you went ahead with Susartu, Rasa, Shweeti, Kramu, Kubha and Mehatnu. You flow along these rivers. 
O aschinikumaro! The chariot of both of you moves well around paradise and comes to you from the sea. O water-maker and anti-enemy AshwiniKumaro! The adhwaryu people are present with roasted barley while mixing somras with sweet milk. 
I send yuvath fan Kravyad Agni to Pitrayan Marg. O Kravyad! You grow in your fathers and stay awake there. Do not come here again by the way of God. (10)
I make both of them powerful through mantra power. I make the ancestors' swadha a chronic and make them long-lived. (32)
O Indra! And the agni! When one of you Indra joins the horses that run in the chariot and sits in a chariot with agni, which man can know this work? i.e. none. 
O furious Indra! When you fought with the dying warrior while wearing an armament for war, I praised you for your display of bravery. At that time all the maruts glorified you as well as themselves. 
O steps of the person willing to walk! You move forward and move quickly. You bring us to the abode of the man who gives us the desired fruit. Indra's wife, who is not defeated by anyone, is the god of our army. He should go ahead to protect our army. (4)
Oh my mind! Worship the praiseworthy by human beings, the nurturer of the psalms by the gifting, and the praises of the agni god ignited by the gods, the inaccessible Pusha God by others. Praise the Sun, Chandra, Yama, Yama in Dulok, Indra, Vayu, Usha, Ratri and Aschinikumaras in the three lokas. 
O cough and respiratory disease! Your creepers etc. are located in the form of a special wound called vidhri in the armpit and take shelter in the testicles. I know his medicine, a special tree called Chipudra is the medicine to eradicate it. (2)
Never was there a time when I did not exist, nor you, nor all these kings; nor in the future shall any of us cease to be.
They raise the devas in the Indra elaborate Vyomrup Devasthan. Indra is the winner of the vritra for completing yajnakarma, Shobhan Yash wale and drinking water. 
When the agni is present in the yajna, the gods are pleased and establish themselves in the place of the yajna-vediform of the sun. The gods set the sun bright in the sun and nights in the moon. The sun and the moon find the undamaged sun and moon light. 
Small pieces of stones, sand, stones, herbs and crops, vines, straws, clouds, bijlis and rain are all located in the Brahman of Yajnashesh. (21)
The deserts are going to go as far as the rivers of the rivers, who take shelter in the yagna like the rays of the ushas, who wish for welfare, adorned with ornaments like the brides, are as dynamic as the rivers and the bright armaments and the paths that go away. 
 O agni! You are the basis of the best yajna. Spread your aura in heaven and earth. You fulfill the wishes of us and our relatives. 
O Ashwinikumaro! By truth, the sun calms its rays. After that they expand their rays like the horn of truth. The sun actually defeats the enemies who make war. Let our friendship be no different. You come here and separate the reins of your horses. 
O Indra! Make our south direction enemy-free. Make our north direction enemyless. Make our west and east directions enemyless. (3)
Those who know this become the favorite place of puranas, history and sagas. (12)
I praise you through host harmony and ask for friendship with you with the desire to have the best sense of righteousness. Protect my animals and my hymns with the gods by your indomitable brightness. 
The many ways of trade and the paths that people travel between the earth and the sky, serve us with ghee, milk, so that we can come home with the basic money including the benefit of doing business. (2)
Fire donates food similar to ancestral wealth. He is as simple a leader as a scholar of theology. They sit with sukhasana and move up the house of the host like a warmer like a guest and as a homemaker. 
O Indra! I praise your simile power for the sake of yajna. O Yajnaswamy Indra! You violated the circle by force. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
Tell us about the God from whom the hymns are formed and from which the mantras of yajurveda are formed, the mantras of Samaveda, whose face is the mantra of Rome and Atharvaveda, whose face is he? (20)
The somas of shobhan buddhi, the knower of the paths and near to all the gods, are cleansed and go to the destruction-free Dronakalash. In all the hymns, Raman and Dhir Som try to follow the five people. 
There are three stages of jamadagni. Kashyap has three stages. There are three states of gods. We should also have three (similar) states. (62)
O Sage Of Puruhanma! Indra's power is in heaven and space. Indra's thunderbolt in hand for sports is as visible as the sun. You adorn the same Indra in this yajna. (5)
Oh, God! What you protect for the benefit of food, O Maruto! The chariot you protect to get the wealth accumulated in the war, O Indra! That same morning, we climb the chariot that goes into battle, is unsustainable and undeterminable for the welfare of us. 
O Indra with green jaws! May your horses join the chariot and take you to the yagna of the hosts according to your wishes. Drink the sweet somras you have kept for yourself. You drink the means of yajna in battle and the mon squeezed by ten fingers. 
Odan Roop Charu prepared by mixing milk in ground wheat should be kept in the west direction near the bones in this karma. For the ghost received by this sacrament, I please the present gods here, the creator of heaven, Indra etc. (16)
Just as a man quickly goes to the pole with distant subjects known by the mind, so o kritva with cough and phlegm disease! You go out of the man's body with the speed of the mind and go away to the country. (1)
This stotao! Praise Soma well, worship the gods and inspire Som to get great wealth. The delicious mons sift over the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair and go to Dronakalash as devabhilashi. 
O Indra! Just as the patient people of shobhan karma build the chariot, so we hosts have made you praise by the desire to gain wealth and have made you happy for our happiness. Just as the warriors praise the victorious, so do O Rainbow! You are being praised. Just as the glorious assh is admired in the time of war, so you are being praised for protecting strength, money and getting all the welfare. 
O act! Destroy the children of your Creator hypocrites. O act! Don't leave them. Destroy your Creator. (31)
O Mon! The part of you that falls here and there while breaking with stones, squeezing and filtering, which is left near Adhwaryu after sacrificing in the yajna, we collect that holy part from the mind. This collected part is dedicated to agni. On Monday, he was determined. You are going to give upwards to the gods. (26)
O Indra and Agni! Omnipresent and serious about your pride, which is the magnitude of the whole world, the same Mon is enough for both of you to drink and to satisfy your mind. 
O hosts! I request the ever-growing Indra to come to your aid. They are called by men in various ways for their faith in wars. 
Usha takes a bath and appears before us like a raised and ornate woman. The heavenly daughter of Usha spreads the light, ending her enemy darkness. 
Oh, my! Come to me and stand on my right side. In this way, we will be able to kill both of us many enemies. I do the home of the sweet holder and the best somras for you. We both drink somras first in a secluded space. 
O woman! The god named Uttuda is very distressing. Let them kill you. Madan, you do not like to sleep on your bed due to disorders. I chastise your heart with the terrible arrow of Cupid. (1)
O very strong Indra! When will you give all kinds of food to the praiseor? When will you mix the yajnakarmas and the praises in you? When will you make the psalms cow-givers? 
First of all, the agnis that are called in the yajna, like the Father, those who adorn, without death, have been armed with various intellects, compatible with food and force and worthy of service have been lit in the yajnashala by human beings. 
Shami tree is female and Ashwattha i.e. Peepal tree is male. He is mounted on the Shami tree to produce a son in the form of agni. Forests are made from the same peepal tree, which is used for agni production. This type of Ashwath has been punsavan. That punsavan means that we do the work of getting a son in women. (1)
O anti-charity, evil-mouthing, perverted, and ever-angering poverty! You go to the mountain. I send you away with my own remedies. 
Among the leaders of the yajna, the most leaders and eaters of enemies, may agni, wish us a yajna with praises and havans. Those who want to do the meditative hymn of agni by providing the rich and powerful host's greeting, let the agni also wish for their praise. 
O Indra! Come from the earth or the vast luminous space and listen to My great praise and gain growth. O Indra of grace! Listen to this elaborate praise of Mine and fulfill the desire of men. 
The cow looks at the calf with closed eyes, licks its head and pauses to strengthen it, looks at the foam on the calf's lips and satisfies it by feeding it milk. 
Indra hit the cloud from all sides in the baseless space for the growth of the Brahmins. 
Swaha for God from prana. Swaha from Apan to Nasika Dev. Swaha for Satdev from the upper lip. Swaha for the god from the lips. The light of the north is different from the light for God. Swaha to the outer god from the inner light. Swaha for investment dev from murdha. Swaha from the bone located in the head to the breast. Swaha to Ashani Dev from the brain. The eye's pupils are used for electricity. Swaha to the deva with his ears. With both ears, there is a curse for Devshakti Dev. Swaha to Tedni Dev from the bottom throat. Swaha for the water god from the dry throat above. Swaha for god of mind from the veins. Swaha for Aditi Dev from the head. Swaha for Nirriti Dev from a dilapidated head. Swaha for prana dev from the speaking organs. Swaha from the top to The Reshma Deva. (2)
 O Mon! We want your shelter. You go by everyone. May we be happy with the food you give us. You are going to live with the sun. 
O horse in the form of sacrifice! Vasugan Gayatri Verses are going to surprise you. O horse in the form of sacrifice! Rudragan invites you with trishtubhab verses. O horse in the form of sacrifice! Adityagan entertains you with jagati verses. The god located in Bhulok is requested to please accept this havi. I request God in space to please accept this havi. I request the God in heaven to please accept this havi. I request the Deity located in Prajapati to kindly accept this havi. The deity located in Devgan is requested to please accept this havi. (8)
Our praiseworthy voice, inspired by Indra, should go in front of Indra from this place to call him to Sompan. 
One who donates aj as panchaudan, illuminated by dakshina, receives five gold coins, five new clothes and five cows that give milk as per his wish. (25)
 O paradise and earth! You are our sustainer. That's how we know you. You increase our immense glory. O God of heaven and earth! You give us happiness. You remove us from sins. 
The fires that have been persecuted by others, which have attained growth between the mother-like directions, are illuminated and enter into them. The herbs that were put in place at the time of the installation of fire, the fire had climbed on them. At this time they run towards the newly cast drugs 
The agnis burn the wood quickly by their flames. Great agnis make themselves fast-moving messengers and take help from the power of the air, especially by burning wood. Just as the rider makes the horse powerful, so the agni forces its rays. 
O sharpened and violently powerful arrows by mantras! Go on you're released and fall on the enemies. Don't leave any of them. 
When the Jatveda agni burns dry wood on the earth, the dust of the earth becomes black at the time of the movement of the agni. 
 O Mon! You're the chief, going to be in the front row. You pay attention to our praises. Listen to all our praises and prayers. You are revered and protected. 
O agni! Make our animals come to work plausible to the animals like cows etc. May all men bring wealth as an offering to us. Just as the son receives wealth from the old father, so the hosts serve and gain wealth in the way they do to you in the places of many gods. 
I take out your tuberculosis disease from the marrow, bone, subtle nerves, fingers, nails and all the metals of your body and remove it from you. (22)
Just as the creatures are frightened by the roar of the lion and all the creatures run away from the ignited agni, in the same way, the tuberculosis disease of our cows etc. animals and sons, grandsons etc. humans should cross the rivers and go far away. (15)
O Indra! You killed Shushna, Pipru and Kuyava and destroyed the cities of Shambar Asura. Let friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash worship what we have desired through this hymn. 
O shobhan-eyed and great Ushadevi! Wake up the ashchinikumaras and make them advanced.  Bum prepare somras in excess for their enjoyment. 
We hosts offer our wisdom to Rudra Dev. They are inspiring and very strong of heroes. Just as the dome remains calm due to the silence of the couplets and chaupayas, so our villages should also remain peaceful due to the silence and anxiety-free of all of us. (48)
Whoever knows this, he is protected from the north direction for two months of autumn and Naudhas and Shyt become favorable to him. (12)
Hey Mon! Accept this yajna and the praise of ours and come near to us and increase our yajna. 
O Friend God! O Varun Dev! You give us money that doesn't go back from us. May we be happy to receive that money. Give us songs that don't leave us. With this grace of yours, we will be happy just as devgans are happy to get food, cows are happy to get food. To increase the age of Rita (Truth) and Yajna, both of you sit on a seat fixed for yourself in the Yajnashala. (10)
O Indra Dev! You give us a good mind, a favored song and a feeling of bravery. You fill us with welfare sentiments. You associate with the best intellect towards the work done by Brahmins for the gods. Accept the sacrifices made by the hosts. (15)
When he walked towards the ancestors, he made Swadha an anad and he himself went on as Yamraja. (13)
Shraddha Punshhali, Mitra i.e. sun praise, science clothes, day turban, night hair, rays are like coils and stars are like gems. (5)
O Indra! There is no end to your power. Even the earth and the heavens are afraid of your great power. Just as the cow protector satisfies the cows with water, so the stotas please you well with the satiating havi. 
The devas go to the Som, well-produced, inspired by water, anti-enemy and ornate with the milk-curd of the cows, etc. 
Oh patient! I have brought you back from the mouth of death. You're the ones with new limbs. You come near to me. I have achieved for you all the organs, eyes and full age. 
O Shobhan Safa wale, lord of the horses and praiseworthy Indra! The servants squeeze the somras for you. Be happy to drink it, that's what we beg of you. May your food grains be suitable and admirable when you go to Somers. 
With a lot of wisdom and study, I can eat highly worshiped and delicious food. Vishwedev and all human beings roam around calling that grain honey. 
 O hosts! Indra has been a wealth giver from the beginning. We worship them for our welfare. 
Vivasvan, the son of the Sun, who walks on the path of many ancestors who cross the earth and travel to a distant country, keeps Yamaraj as the abode of the dead. (49)
O medicine named Sahadevi! First of all, give pleasure to my bulls capable of pulling the cart. After this, you make my milch cows happy. In addition to my cows, you should also give happiness to new bulls, horses, etc. of five years of age. (1)
O furious Indra! It is true that you are full of desires, attracted by desirefuls and without being surrounded by shantru. O furious Indra! You are heard full of desire. You are famous as a wisher in distant and nearby places. 
Meritorious, fearless and knowing duty and non-duty, Agni makes all the food delicious in the same way as the breast of a cow makes delicious milk. On being called to the yajna, Agni come and sit in the place of sacrifice like a benevolent person. 
 Someras has been squeezed for Indra. O Mon! You're succulent. You are delightful and delicious. Your currents flow continuously. 
Everyone increases Indra Dev. Everyone sings the virtues of Indra Dev with their speech. Praise them. The best charioteer, Annaswamy Satpati etc. all praise Indra Dev. (61)
O Indra! When will the sword you threw and pierced the sinful demons be thrown away? Just as the cows in the slaughterhouse are cut, so the demons who are hurt by this weapon of yours and hate their friends fall on the earth and fall asleep. 
O red-colored lac! You are going to heal the wound, so stop the blood flowing from this organ cut off by the edge of the sword in the same place. O Arundhati Devi! You made this blood-drained organ blood-stained and unsound. (1)
Urva means cooking vessel, chamas i.e. chamcha-wearing and base should be separated from me. (3)
This woman came close to me, wishing for her husband. I also received it from my wife's wish. Just as a horse goes to the mare, I have met this woman. (5)
O Indra! You protect the gods by good food and by force. O gentleman and multi-worked Indra! Drink certain parts of somras by the gods by defeating all the enemies and the velocities and victorious among the waters. 
Indra is to stay in the east direction and Yama is in the south direction. (20)
O scion of Bharat, I am also the knower of all the individual fields of activity. The understanding of the body as the field of activities, and the soul and God as the knowers of the field, this I hold to be true knowledge.
The Odan who had assumed the earth that was the enjoyment of all beings, which Odan completes space with his juice and the Odan who had taken Duloka i.e. heaven above with his importance, with the help of the same Odan, I cross death. (3)
Even at a distance, the bright and bright usha, who is close by, when she turns everything white, spreads the light in many ways. 
May our main hymns be received by the sun in the same way that the saritas go to the sea. The suryasuti performed in the yajnashala never ends, in the place where there is a sacred feeling for the sun, the desire of the hosts is never incomplete. 
 O hosts! Indra is the destroyer of the batches of enemies. They are going to scare them. Indra is very powerful. They are going to give money to vajradhari, vritrashak, annadata and hosts. 
Prajapati gave a praise with his voice, from which Prajapati created the people. He became the ruler of all. He gave a praise to all three (Prana, Apan, Vyan). Brahmanaspati was made the ruler of him. He praised the five souls. The masters of the Panchabhutas became his masters. He praised the seven sages. God, the creator of the universe, became his ruler. (28)
O Sacrificial God! You are great. Don't be violent towards hosts. You are great. Don't be cruel to the hosts. You are great. Don't be angry with the hosts. By your grace, ghee flow like water. Let us follow the path of truth. (12)
Soma, meritorious and dependent in the waves of the river, flows by many saying words flowable. 
The unshaken grass that remains in the horse's stomach and the raw meat that remains while cooking, should be cleaned by the meat cutters and the meat worthy of yajna should be cooked for the sake of the gods. 
O Indra! You rise for the welfare of human beings and gods. You are illuminated in front of everyone. (17)
Both the horns of this cow are Prajapati and Parmeshti. Indra is the head of this, agni frontal and Yama Krikat i.e. the hanging part under the neck. (1)
 Somerus goes at the speed of the swan. He has access to the wisdom of the world's wise. 
Oh, God! Let us hear the word of welfare with our ears. O god of yajnapatra! Let us see the adornment with our own eyes and get the age established by Prajapati praising you with a body of firm handicraft. 
The host serving Jupiter defeats the enemies with his power like Sarita who breaks the edges and the bull who defeats ordinary bulls.  Whatever the Brahmaspati accepts as friends, it cannot be stopped like a blazing agni. 
In this host's house, food containing children, non-going and including cows is obtained every day. 
O agni! Just as the wheel name places the arrows in itself, so you defeat the gods. You give the psalms good money. 
A medicine called Padwa destroys a snake called Kasarnil, a white snake and a black snake. Paddha broke the heads of serpents named Rathrvya and Pridaku. (5)
O Indra! People call upon you for help in wars. People with enemies in battle call you. Indra makes the call of Havya his friend and does not want friendship with the man who does not squeeze the Somras. 
Oh my god! You are pole, stable in nature, stable original position and pole nature. You can consume and stabilize the bark. You get the stable best position. May ashwini dev and devs establish you in this excellent place. (1)
O scholar Indra! Let's take us to the vast heaven. That heaven is light and without fear. O mighty Indra! We rely on your beautiful and firm arms to protect you. 
Who possessed the air of life, apana and vyana in this man? Who depended on the same air in this man? (13)
Oh my friend and Varun! Come to my stota and fulfill my wish. Do not forsake the one who holds me, and do not forsake us sages and sons. Protecting us in somayagna. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as you made the yajna a success for Manu, so also understand the yajna of Kanva. I call Jupiter all the gods, Indra, Vishnu and Ashwinikumaras with dynamic asshyas. 
Those who perform yajna and those who do not, related to Vamdev, yajna, host became very favorable to him and followed. (10)
O Agni God who invokes the gods! We praise you with lust. Be careful to protect our sons, grandsons, cows and souls. (7)
Just as the antelope in the midst of the grass is not serviceless, but eats grass, so so those who praise you should never be void of your service. Thus they will not go the way of Yamraj. 
Two birds with beautiful wings i.e. soul and God are sitting on the same world tree. One of these i.e. the soul eats the delicious fruits of peepal. Secondly, God does not eat the fruits of Peepal and sees his other partner. (20)
Aditi Devi with gods should wear Savita Dev with happiness. Aditi Devi's posture of Kush is wide. Aditi Devi is happy. Aditi Devi is spread on earth with her vastness. (4)
O hosts! This Indra is the destroyer of sorrows, is worth seeing and happy to drink someras. We praise Indra for the success of your yajna. Just as the rambed cows go to their calf at sunrise and sunset, we go towards Indra while praising. (4)
O Lord Indra! You are the destroyer and the giver of joy. We worship you with the best mantras. (76)
O Indra! No one can do violence to our heroes. Let us take our heroes along and also control those enemies who attack us with the army. (20)
O man! If you run away from here and go three plans away, five plans away or go as far away as the horse can reach throughout the day, you come to me from there too and become the father of my sons. (3)
The sages adorned with the adult karma and beloved yagnas had called for a agni shining by pure light in the middle of the yajna to protect themselves. 
(Hey Kurm!) You sit in the womb of water. You sit in the circle of the sun. Don't let the sun warm you. Do not make you angry even with vaishnava. You constantly observe the people, may the divine vision always alert you. (30)
 O Indra! You get an increase according to the season. You get increase from works like yajna. You are intelligent and knowledgeable. We worship you. 
"O Agastya! The ancient maharishis attained the truth. They spoke the truth with the gods. He also ejaculated semen in the wives and did not finish this task. While doing penance, the wives used to go to the able husbands." 
O agni! For the purpose for which we produce you through our hands, feet and other parts of the body, the best performing and engrossed in yajnadi karmo, angira also produces you for the same karma by making a ravanimanthan with his arms, in the same way as the artisan prepares the chariot. 
Just as the lotus is uprooted from the lake, I destroy the mucous disease of this patient man from the root. Just as cooked cucumber automatically separates from its placenta, I break the bond of this patient's mucous disease. (2)
The same Rudra is the recipient of wealth at the time of dhandan and the same namaskar is the best spoken in the yagna. (5)
O teacher! For Indra, who violated Dumik, who destroyed the force asura and freed the cows stopped by him, fill up the som everywhere in this way, just as the sky is filled with air. Just as you cover the weak person with clothes, cover Indra with somers. 
O friend B Varun Dev! You two gods listen to our prayers. Spread your arms and bless us and give us success in this life. You water our yajna with cow's chi and the field with honey nectar. (9)
The goddess made Indra Dev energetic. God is full of food power. Goddess is full of water power. Goddess Dayamayi is the one who knows the ancient elements and wears new and old food. May they be pleased to give great opulence to the host and give him stability. Please godly drink. Hosts should perform yajna for them. (16)
Just as the victorious people perform harshanad, so do the marudganas who come to the Shobhan Yajna! You also roar with the darp. 
Hey Mon! Your inflammable and fast rushes extend the water on the upper part of the jhuloka. 
O Indra! By the glory of your creator, those who wear all the substances and the vessels of the yajna come again and again day and night. Straight-moving, friends and commensable deserts are able to support your power to defeat the disturbing deserts. 
 O Indra! We have prepared a special yagya vedika to make you sit. You come with the Maruts. You all sit in that place. You are our protector and our guardian. You give us a lot of money. Please be happy to drink somers. 
The enemies who want to do violence to others, who come from the east direction and worship me at night, those enemies should get the air of space installation for their destruction. (2)
O Indra! We should be endowed with the money we all want. Let us be equipped with the force that pleases the people. May we have your gracious intellect. That intellect gives us cows and removes our sufferings. (5)
O agni! You are well-produced. Please adorn the altar with flames. You are pleasant and radiant. You live on a worldly earth. (40)
O leader and shobhanjan-born Ashwinikumaro! While asking for money, we call you to protect. You come before us by your rich chariot to give us happiness by accepting our praises. 
O Indra with sobhan praises! Save us from sorrowful sins, for you are the ones who are the ones who are to destroy evil demons forever. You, being pleased with our praises, defeat the evil-wise yagyavadhaks. You are the protector of the deadly and glorious hosts like us, the deadly of fruit-bearing sin. O Indra for the abode! That is why you were created by the Creator of all. O lord! You have been born to the destruction of demons. 
 O hosts! Indra is beautiful to look at and bright like the sun. They have double power. They protect the gods, destroy the demons and protect us. We should all worship him. 
O men willing to firm up hairstyles! The hair that falls on the earth and which is cut without root, I wet all your hair with the medicine that destroys hair related diseases. (3)
Vishnu has enthusiastically announced that glory of Indra by giving a piece of Somalata. Dhanaswami Indra killed Vrithra with the help of the gods who walked along and became the best. 
 O Indra! You are the king of men. No one can match the speed of your chariot. You are going to kill the army of enemies and Vritrasura. We praise the best Indra. 
Yagyas named Rajasuya, Vajpeya and Agnishtom are violence-free. Ark, Ashwamedha, Jeevabarhi and Intoxicating Somayag - all of them are dependent on the rice left from the uchishta i.e. home. (7)
O agni! Brahmins choose you. You be a benefactor for us. You groom our enemies. You win us over enemies. By your grace, we should stay awake in our house without laziness. (3)
O agni! We very humbly call upon you. Please come before us and sit in the original place with gentleness. Please be appointed in this yajna. Please be in this yagna with all of you hosts and sit down. (73)
We dig a pit to destroy demons. We dig a pit to destroy the taste. Vishnu is installed in these pits. For them, we sprinkle water in the pits. For them, we lay the seat of Kush in the pits. They are demons and anti-morals. For them, we keep panes in the pits. They are demons and anti-morals. For them, we lay soil and stones in the pits. You are foster. O Vishnu! Please be stable. (25)
What are the bottom ankles made of? What is the man's knees, thighs and legs made from? Where is the joint of the knees and who knows it? (2)
O Anjan Mani! You come to protect living beings from a mountain called Trikkud. You are the eye of Mount Trikakud. All the gods like Indra etc. have provided you in the form of a boundary wall to remain disease-free. (1)
Which God created water for this man and who made the day of light for this? Which god brightened Usha and who gave her the evening? (16)
Fire conquered the upward life with one letter, just as we were also able to get bijay. With two letters, the Ashwini kumars won the two-legged humans. Let us also emulate that victory. Vishnu Dev conquered the three worlds with three letters. Let us also follow that victory. Som won the chaupayas with four letters, in the same way, let us also follow that victory by his grace. (31)
Improve the yajnakarma of the ancestors that enhance the sweet water by the Kanvagotriya sage uktha mantras. 
O agni undefeated by enemies and a workable agni! Be well-lit up by conquering all the cities of the enemies and the riches in them. O Shobhankarma and Jataveda Agni! Be the leader and patron and completer of the Bum Great Yajna. 
Just as fame is prevalent in the girl and in the full chariot, may this gem made of varan tree give me fame and opulence in the same way. (20)
 Somerus is bright. He springs from his stream of rice in brown som cow's milk. He is powerful. 
How can we give a good deed according to the agni that is without death, the one who calls upon the gods, the one who performs the yagna, and who dwells among men? How will we praise the glorious agni? 
Those who perform the dead rites and desire agni, men invoke Saraswati. We also call Saraswati in jyotishtom etc. yagyas. Give the desired money to the host who provides Goddess Saraswati. (41)
I pray that I get a goshala full of cows. Sing to my house. I'll recognize the cows and go to graze the cows. Sing from my house to the forest and return after grazing. I also pray to the cow-rearers. 
The seven rays are located in the world's work of holding water for half a year, becoming the semen of the world. Those rays of knowledge and going all around surround the world with the wisdom of doing good to the world. 
 O agni! You are going to invite the gods. You listen to our praises. You come to our yajnasthan with other agnis, take the seat of Kush. Please accept our commitments. 
O agni! You are the divine qualities. You plough your horse in the chariot. They should carry the wheels of your chariot and take you to the destination soon. (36)
O agni! We mortals call you again and again with a praiseful heart, praising you without dying. O Jathaveda! Give us children, because of whose infidelity we can become deathless. 
Rohit, the ruler of heaven, travels in all directions and goes to the ocean of heaven. They protect all organisms as well as the earth. (41)
The protectors, with gold in their hands and the sacrificial sinner Savita should come well into our yajna. They give the havandata host as bright money as Usha. 
The scenics, guests and dignitaries live in the houses and forests of agni hosts. They don't leave a person like dynamic. The pro-people agnis go to the human beings and take shelter of all the subjects. 
O agni! Stay upstairs. You expand your body. You destroy our ego. Those who are our inferior enemies, you burn them like dry samidha and burn them to ashes. (12)
O Indra! Just as water completes the stream, so listen to the praises of the previous sages and our praises and accept them and increase our food. O Lord indra of horses named Hari! We have made new praises for you. Let us be the masters of the chariot and your servants. 
Both the past and the future are his protectors and the mind is his war chariot. (6)
O Sage of Medhati! Praise and pray to me king Asang again and again. I am the highest giver of money among the wealthiest. In front of me the advanced path and the force of the best ordnance, the horses of others are defeated. 
 O agni! We illuminate you with samidhas on the holy festival. Havi provide. Let's think of you. You sharpen our intellects. Let us make our yajna successful by your grace and stay free from sufferings. 
O Sun! The wise know both the chakras of your chariot according to the season. Only those who know the one cycle of your chariot that is secret know it. (15)
The sun, which expressed the soul and praruh i.e. the creeper tree that grows, etc., touched all the bodies. O host! May those suns, by their importance, fill your nation with ghee and milk. (8)
Savita could not disdain Dev. They give us the best money. Let the flowing rivers be moving for the same wealth. We become yajnas and speak hymns so that we become masters of wealth and have good food. 
Yajna increases our finances, knowledge, past, future and good wealth. May our paths be easier with yajna. May the obstacles of our path end with yajna. May yajna increase our good deeds, strength, truth, intellect and good sense. May yajna be all-fruitful for us. (11)
We are the king Varuna. Devaganas possess the best force of asuras for us. God serves the yagna of the people of the people and the holder of all the people. We are the best. 
O very young and eternal agni! Bring the gods who desire me to be the disobedient host for lust. O agni that gives you the place of residence! Bring the well-nourished grains and be happy to be established by praises. 
Indra should not trouble me, nor be tired, nor let alone, nor tell us not to do somabhishava. Let them go to the somras squeezer, fulfilling my wishes, donating, knowing our yajna, and taking the cows along. 
O Earth! Place me in the middle of your navel, the substances that strengthen everyone's bodies. Bhumi is my mother and Megh is my father. Both of them complete the yajna karma. (12)
O Agni God facing the army of demons! You face these armies. We are returning this act to the motivator of the act. (8)
Indra, who gives us the abode, then gives us food along with many cows when he hears our praises. 
This stotao! Sing praises to the son of space and the saintly soul. 
Sacrifice devoid of faith and contrary to the injunctions of the scriptures, in which no food is offered, no mantras chanted, and no donation made, is to be considered in the mode of ignorance.
The Guru said to his disciple thus- 'O Devdatta! If you consume this odan from a different page than the chest from which the previous ritual duty sages had consumed this odan, then you will not get success in sage work.  It has not been done from the front, nor by the spirit. I have consumed this odan from the chest in the form of the earth. I have taken it where it should have gone. This omen is full of all organs, including all joints and full body. By this method, the one who knows how to consume that odan, he is full-bodied with all the joints with all the organs and is situated in the virtuous worlds like heaven etc. (10)
Those who are the possessors and nurturers of all through Aditya Varsha etc. Even the poor, whom they worship knowing the means of their opinion and the king is also willing to worship, we invoke those Aditi sons and the sun with undefeated power in the morning. (2)
The RigVeda appeared from that great yajna-like man. From that, samaveda appears. From that yajurveda appeared. From that, atharvaveda originated. (7)
O hosts! I praise the agni at the beginning of your dev-related yajna. I praise agni before all the gods at the time of starting the yajna, when i get brotherhood and gain territory. 
Arjun said : O Keshav, what is the disposition of one who is situated in divine consciousness? How does an enlightened person talk? How does he sit? How does he walk?
O deer! I have worn you as the gem for destroying regional diseases. Destroy the diseases that are settled in the heart of this patient. (2)
Brahmins, pitraganas, and somaras drinkers should protect us. May the welfare gods protect us. May heaven and earth stop us from sins. May Pusha Dev protect us, remove obstacles and sins from us. No sinner can rule us. (47)
O Indra! Surya, Varuna, Yama and Vishnu are your admirers. The team that runs behind the wind gives you joy. (3)
The great sam, the charioteer, the sun and all the gods followed him. (2)
The great agni is running on the one who does the word. We know that they remove the silent offering through an antelope-like head. (10)
Naman to the gallantry. Naman for counsellor. Naman to the arrow-bearing. Naman to the one who holds the tunir (quiver). Naman to the one with sharp arrows. Naman to the weapons holder. Naman to those with their own weapon and beautiful bows. (36)
O agni! You have made me the bearer of the Somras for the sake of performing the yajna, so desire to make me powerful. As I light up, I aim at the gods and pick up stones to squeeze the somras and speak hymns. You protect my body. 
The deserts search for a man who praises and fulfill the wishes of the host. O Maruto! You people are pleased to sit on the kushas in our yajna to drink somras. 
As soon as the marudgans, who wear bright ornaments on their chests and adorn the daan, ride on the chariot, they go to the host's house and give the food worthy, just as the cow feeds its calf. 
O ghost! In the downward direction that remains stable, we install you in a pitra devta named Swadha, already located and covered with a blanket. Just as the earth donated to Brahmins by donors protects heaven in an upward direction, so should the father god named Swadha follow you. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! You become participants in this yajna. (34)
O agni! A man who praises you at night or in the morning or pleases you with a beloved havya in his hand, you can save him from poverty while walking around like a horse with a golden saddle in the yajnashala. 
O God of Agni! While saying the word, cast your eye on the demon, that is, burn it, from which you see the demons in the form of animals. Just as maharishi named Atharva burnt the demon with the effect of his tenacity and mantra, in the same way, you should also completely burn the demons who commit violence of truth and knowledgeless with your divine light. (21)
 O agni! You are the destroyer of the army of enemies, the divine giver and the giver of abundant food. We invite you along with all the agnis. 
Human beings take them on the path of God through Awadhya and Yagya. You are going to take you across the world. Let us receive light by the grace of God. (73)
Hey Ritvijo! Indra serves, so go to him and praise him. People increase the grain of Indra, who drinks somras, through uwatha mantras. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
O Ritavari, that is, the cow that gives milk! You came close when called by the Adityas. O Vasa Gau! Then Indra took thousands of vessels and made you drink Someras. (9)
Give us the desired fruits for the protection of the god of adornment, the creator of the beautiful hand, the rich and the true resolve. O Lord.o! Please us together with The Pusha, because the ritwijas who lift the stones to squeeze the mon have performed this yajna. 
The vrithrahanta and the targets of many somabhishvas indra know our desire. The mighty Indra listen to our praise. 
May the Swami God give beautiful blessings in this yajna. This sacrifice should be for them. (9)
May the morning give me happiness, may the evening give me happiness and make me happy day and night. In the constellation for which I leave, the deer etc. should be in the form of auspicious shakuns in which I move in accordance with me. O agni! Come here again to please the hosts and the ritwijas who greet the deities of all the nakshatras and go to the eternal day. (3)
The agnis produced by the churning of the aranis are illuminated with their swiftness, putting an end to the destructive bandits and darkness. Sing, water and the sun are revealed by agni. 
After the knowledge of the highest earth and the sky as the parents of agni, the host brings to the agni the pleasure of praise made with a high voice. Fire sends that pleasure to the host in the form of its brightness spread in all four directions at night by rain. 
O Ashwini Dev! You protect us during the day. O Goddess Saraswati! You protect us at night. Vaidya Ashwinikumar is divine. They protect Indra Dev through conscious soma. (62)
Through the atiratri yajna, the host can attain as much prosperity in heaven as he can by serving the guest. (4)
 Those hosts who worship, refine someras, do good deeds, donate, Usha gives food and strength to those hosts and makes them bright. Like a warrior in battle, she adorns the sky. 
Tuberculosis falls as a bird and enters the male. We remove both the diseases that exploit and do not exploit all the metals of the body with mantras and medicines. (4)
O Indra! Eat our purodash and consume our praises in the same way that the kaami man serves the beautiful woman. 
O aschinikumaro! Protect us in the same way that you protected the kanva, the avat, the praiseworthy and the praise-loving Atri. 
May the Sun God give us all the desired wealth in the west, east, north and south directions and give us a long life. 
 O Desertion! You are Prajapati's son. You are immortal. Please make us happy. Please listen to the praises. 
O Swami of the head of the village and who increases the happiness of his dependents! May the demons that you have sent to us and the demons that you have sent return from us. Let your weapons also return. Your retainer thieves also return. Go to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. You eat his meat. (2)
O Cupid! What everyone calls energetic speech is your daughter. Destroy my enemies through him. Life, animals and life should not be with them. (5)
O the desired deserts! The medicines that are pure and very pleasing to you, which our father Manu liked, we desire rudra's same soothing and frightening medicines. 
O Saraswati with food and water! Accept these things. We, the Gritsamdvanshi rishis, have given you this honourable and dear heart of the gods. 
The committees of agni with yajnakarma should be beneficial. The agni enters the vast Dyava-Prithvi through its brightness. They inspire their hosts to win in battle and kill all the enemies. 
 O Indra! You know the feeling of the mind of the ignorant who does not praise with speech. They also know the feeling of the mind of those who praise. You also know the singing of sang. 
 O Mon! Brahmins worship you with prayers made wisely. You are pure, unique and all-encompassing. 
The demons who condemn me according to the will of the truthful and the demons who contaminate the sacrificial deeds of my welfare with food - give these two types of demons to Somdev snake or sit in the lap of sin god Nirti. (9)
Our age increased with gy. Increased strength and strength in life. Eyes and ears should be superior. The speech is excellent. May the soul be blissful. Brahma, the knower of the Vedas, should be content. Yajna gives jyotishman the supreme principle, yajna gives heaven i.e. happiness. The mantras of yajna and praise give the desired results. May all gods give us divinity. That is, give happiness. May we also enjoy happiness in the form of Prajapati Parmatma. That is why this sacrifice is dedicated. (29)
The barn is the vessel of this odan and the puffy part of the grain filling car, its shoulder and the harse of the car are the joints between the shoulders and body of this odan. (9)
 O Mon! You are mixed with cow milk, pure, omniscient, going on the best path and pervading all the worlds. All worshipers worship you. 
We invoke Brahma, the swami of speech. May the Brahmans invoked by us call us closer to us. We should always be equipped with complete knowledge and never get away. (4)
Those who hold the directions as visible above the earth are the creators of the ancient heavens and our place of circulation. They protect the cows by becoming masters. They kill all our enemies. 
O mighty Indra! You take the cows with the desire to give us in this way, just as barleys are taken in your hand. Take more things into your hand than you desire to give us. 
O friends, that is, the giving gods of our victory! Pray for the victory of the army from this cantonment. Our warriors given by you are protected by you. O arbud serpent! Be a part of our friends who have come to fight with our enemies. (2)
O earth! Remove Gandharva, Apsara, Rakshas, Carnivores, Vampires etc. from us. (50)
O agni! Forgive the violence that has happened by walking away from us and our fast has disappeared. Both buying and selling of business items should be beneficial to me. O Indra and Agni! You agree and accept this desire. By the grace of both of you, my purchase and the money received from it in the form of profit is pleasant for me. (4)
O Indra Dev! In which Soma is used, we should not go separately from that method. Do not remain enemies in our country. (59)
Dhanvan Indra helps the one who performs the yajna when he sees two people with wealth and wealthy and wealthy fighting for the best cows. Indra, who vibrates the clouds, sings to the yajnakarta. 
O Sage Vishwamana! Praise the aschinikumaras. They hear your call many times and kill the enemies and the people who are nearby. 
The Ushas have created a enlightening light of the world covered with darkness. They light up the sun in the eastern part of the sky. Just as invading warriors perform the rites of their armaments, so do the ushas that make up the motion, the bright and the sun light, come every day, improving the world with their light. 
O Indra and Agni who increase the yajna! Your stotra is famous. You never accept the Somras of the host who praises you badly with unloved words when the host somers are gone. 
Joe Shur Indra leads us. They are not pleased in my rule, yours or anyone else's rule. 
O Varun with arms! Bound by you, I come like a cloud shivering from the cold and air-induced. O Varun with obhavana! Make me happy and have mercy on me. 
O global! In the ultimate Vyom you are born of the sun and drink somras first like the air. O Jativeda Agni! You roar as electricity, producing water and fulfilling the wishes of a putra-loving host. 
O Indra! You are non-violent. The host is a sign. serve the host with money; You are endowed with opulence. You are going to donate more money to the host. (34)
 O agni! You are prominent in varenya 
O god! Chant mantras soon in front of those light or bright gods. For cows you are the true form. (4)
Those who squeeze the som for Indra, cook the purodas and fry the barley, accept the praises of the same hymns and accept the praises of indra and take on the force of fulfilling the desire for indra's host. 
 O priest! You prepare somers early. Indra wants to drink somers early. He has ploughed his horses in the chariot. Indra, who destroyed Vritrasura, also reached. 
O heavenly Lord! Let us give a non-perishable gemstone to those who eat the right food. After that, you become powerful and do sompan. You give us money by your grace. 
The watery vans while completing their work go to space looking as far away as the vulture bird. They are illuminated with bright radiance and create the third realm, that is, the water of everyone in the sky. 
O agni! Heat the part of this dead person which is without birth with your heat. Let your flame and light heat it. O Jativeda Agni! You take it to the realms of those who do good deeds by your welfare forms. 
It is described as the group of all gods. With that glow that fulfills the desire, they stabilize their form in the water. They give great and very giving money, great speed, heroic sons and non-finished strength. 
O agni! You must lead us quickly to welfare money by the path of thieves, deliver us from sin, and give us the pleasures of the psalms. May we live for a hundred years with the best offspring. 
That unintelligent resolve is said to be determination in the mode of ignorance, in which one does not give up dreaming, fearing, grieving, despair, and conceit.
 At the time of yajna, mantras of the three Vedas are sung. Milch cows are eager for their exploitation. Green Someras goes into the matkas making a sound. 
May I be superior to all the enemies who want to weaken us apart from our tribe or our tribe, just as you are the best of all the trees. (2)
Hey Mon! Stotas who know the means of hiding keep you safe by hiding. You hear the word of the stones. No man on earth can drink you. 
May all the gods, including Aditi, the mother of the gods, prove our fast. They have the ability to prove them. He is great, king and God. 
All the things that have been brought and won by injuring the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be free from the bondage of the Angiras i.e. the Angira tribe. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and put him blind mouth. (15)
At the time when the father did a lot of work with his young woman, a little semen fell near his sexual intercourse. While mutually transporting, they both left the semen in the vagina, the high place of the yajna. 
O Indra and Air! Bring you thousands of horses here to drink somers. 
O Somrupa Food! You sit on your beloved kushas in our yajna in accordance with your praises and birth. 
O Mon who conquers cows, horses, worlds and delightful wealth! You fall down. 
Through this herb named Sahadevi, I have made all the acts contaminated and ineffective. I have rendered ineffective all the acts that my enemies have buried in my fields, in my cowshed and in the air circulation space. (5)
 Just as the knight is praised and gets prestige in wars, in the same way, the host praises Someras in the yajna and Soma gets prestige in the yajna land. 
Indra had filled his entire stomach with somras and was happy to drink the sweet somras. Idra had picked up his infinitely sharp great vajra to kill the deer asura. 
O Jupiter! Whoever wants to be abrahmana opulence should not eat the food of sutvasha and vasa involved in vipit i.e. special purposes. (44)
Those who are the deadless and divine agnis of men, who are truthful among the human beings, who defeat the enemies of the Indradi devas, those who call the gods and the most sacrificators, have been installed at the north altar to be illuminated by their great glory and to send the hosts to heaven. 
O one-sided! I please the spring seasons and their presiding deities with my heart. I perform yagya related to season, day and night related and twelve months. I also perform yajna through you for the sake of the master period of grazing creatures. (9)
O agni that performs yajna and is a agni of holy light! At this time you wish for the duty of the host. Lum is the yajnakara of the gods, so do the devas. O very young agni! You have become omnipresent by your importance. Whatever you are given today, bear it. 
O gem that increases the yajna! You are kalyankarini. Give superiority to the one I bind you to. (34)
 O ritvijo 
 O Mon! Please cleanse the unclean place. Please shower for food etc. to feed the host. 
O indra without treachery! Your glory is real, because you did sohapana as soon as you were born, you cannot even celebrate the glory of your rebellion in heaven, day, month and year. 
Hey Varun! The air you inspire is the soul of the world and sends water everywhere. Just as the animal carries a load on the grass, so the air fills the world by getting food. All your places in the middle of the wide-ranging earth are dear. 
O mighty agni! We ask for the same that your choice and charitable wealth is not lost. 
O free, sharp, with steady rush, with gold ornaments, a beautiful ordnance and an endowner, Maruto! Let not your powerful, water-raining, brilliant, dynamic, extended, and defeating enemies shake the avyamrut. 
O Apamarga, that is, the tree of Chirchita! You have grown as fruits facing the front, so remove all my defects from me too much. (1)
The sages of Vasishthagotri have praised the earth and the sky very well today. He has also praised the yajna-wielding Varuna, the friend and the agni. May the god of god who makes us happy give us the best food worthy and best food of the people and protect us forever through means of welfare. 
This tradition has originated. It's in the shelter of this. He is going to dispose of these fast moving serpents. (7)
One who roams in his cows even after the resolution form of speech, he insults the gods and is the one who destroys his life and opulence by the gods. (28)
O God! Let us not sin in your hidden place. O God of residence! Let us not sedition for your anger. We should not get a false form. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
The Supreme Lord said: My dear Arjun, how has this delusion overcome you in this hour of peril? It is not befitting an honorable person. It leads not to the higher abodes, but to disgrace.
O Indra! Come here with the help of horses with praiseworthy and peacock-like hairs. O Indra! No hymn stops you with his praises in the same way that the bird catcher stops the birds. Just as a thirsty traveler goes to a place of water, so encroach on other eulogists and come to us soon. (1)
O agni born like a son from two arrows and without death! All gods praise you. O global! When you are illuminated between the earth and the sky, the hosts attain immortal positions through your sacrifices. 
The men who cremate the deceased invoke Saraswati, wishing for agni. Saraswati is also invoked on the occasion of jyotishtom etc. yajnas. They should provide suitable substances to the host who gives Saraswati Havi. (45)
Yama Dev is full of ancestors and angiras. Offerings are made for Yama Dev. Ahuti is dedicated to the expansion of yajna. Sacrifice is dedicated to giving satisfaction to the ancestors. (9)
The agni-light is as bright as the sun,radiating rays, are full and bright and make a heavy sound in the middle of the herbs. The agnis that run by the bright and dynamic fast subdue our enemies fill the earth and the sky with wealth. 
That agni god has told me about the gem that returned krita rakshasi. Som, Brihaspati, Savita and Indra have also said the same about Mani. Other famous gods and priests have also returned krita rakshasi through this gem. (5)
O Indra Dev! O Vishnu! You come. You are established among the homogeneous brothers. Please also please rest The Desert and Ashwini Dev to be installed. All gods are all-pervading. May all the gods please drink the sweet someras and wear us. (47)
 O agni! You are a force-enhancing, benefactor, a complement to desires and are the form of truth. You are the main doer of the yajna. 
O Indra and Vishnu! Both of you have created the sun, usha and agni and created a wide paradise for the host. Hey leaders! You ended the maya of a dasa named Vrisshipra in wars. 
O spectacular Ashwinikumaro! Just as you brought wealth and food in the chariot for the charitable Sudas, so bring us from heaven and give us the money desirable by many. 
 O Vishnu! You are everywhere. Don't hide this vast and comprehensive form of yours from us. No matter how many forms you wear, you definitely protect us. 
The supreme power does not die, nor does it diminish. She goes through the path of the gods. She reaches where people who do good deeds live through an easy path. Savita Dev himself wears it. (16)
Surround the agni that is produced by the soul in the heart and with intoxicating flames from the front of our new praises. The men who performed yajna at the appropriate time created the agni at the time of the war. 
May those Aditis, worthy of praise, come to us during the day through her protective means, give us peace-giving happiness and remove our barriers. 
 Som filters for Indra and Vayu and comes down to the earth. They are holy and heavenly comforters. 
Savita has created yajna means. They purify these yajna-means with the rays of the holy sun without holes. You are stunning, bright, beloved and inferior (modest) of the nectar gods. You are the main instrument of this yajna being performed for the gods. (31)
Three of these are great and important and the fourth is speech. The scholar Brahma came to know this speech through penance. Only a lonely person can know one of them. (3)
Stay together in this world with the effect of this odan. You stay with you on the way yama and it in my yajna. You have become pure because of the completion of these holy sacrifices. Whatever work you have indicated for, you receive the fruits of those people. (3)
The fruitification of this odan is a creature called Grave, whose head and eyebrows do not differentiate. Meru is his head moving in the sky. (6)
Demons, evil and demons have been removed from the seat of happiness. The seat is the covering on the earth. May Mother Earth please accept that asana. You are as strong as a stone. Your base is also as strong as a stone. You are made from vegetation. May Mother Earth bless you with the blessings. (14)
O man who harms the Brahmin! The rope that is tied in the body of a dead man, from that the gods have made your bed. (12)
Just as this vast earth holds these large trees, so has the agni taken your mind to survive, to become indestructible, and to stay away from death. 
This stotao! Praise the famous agni leader of all. The lord of all the ritwijs goes to the agni god and gives a greeting to the gods. 
This is the hymn! Praise the agnis that surround all the forests with their flames and blacken them with their tongues. 
O agni! You lead the gods as soon as you are born. You invoke the gods. You are located in the east direction in the form of Jyoti. Devgan receives a dedicated sacrifice in your mouth. (36)
Being holy, Som crosses the blanket made of sheep's hair and drips, i.e., being holy, mon reaches Indra. 
For the man who fully accepts the agni of kravyad, the house becomes like a prison and the woman's husband attains death. He should obey the command of a learned man. (39)
The agni first originated in adityarupa above the dulok. The agni originated among us for the second time as the Jataveda. The third time they were born in water. Human-beneficial agnis are constantly burning. People with shobhan meditation praise agni. 
O Jupiter! O Indra! You are both masters of divine and earthly wealth. Protect us with your protecting forces and give money to us praisers. (7)
That intellect which is shrouded in darkness, imagining irreligion to be religion, and perceiving untruth to be the truth, is of the nature of ignorance.
Through the water I drink, I catch the human enemy and drink its juice. Just as the ocean takes all the water from the river mouth and drinks it, in the same way I drink the juice of shrew. I first drink the life of this enemy by making juice and later destroying this whole enemy. (2)
O Savita Dev! You are the first of the gods. You provide nectar and good fortune to those who perform yajna. They then expand their rays (in space). They strive for the life of human beings. (54)
Oh, horse! Do not let your beloved body grieve you when you go near your gods. The knife does not stop on your limbs. A person who is willing to accept meat and has an unskilled bite in the amputation of the limbs should not cut the body diagonally with a knife in addition to different organs. 
O Indra! The person whose death you want, this wish becomes true. (2)
This saubhagyashalini and the usha, who adds horses to the chariot, comes close to the human beings by a hundred chariots from the rising point of the distant sun. 
Being squeezed, the beautiful Mon goes to the place where Dev resides. 
This yajna is being highly adorned by those who wish for Indra. Indra is very bright and innocent i.e. without sin. (2)
Through which we praise the swami, through whom the earth and by whom these waters are safe, the woman who sheds a thousand streams of milk through veda mantras.
The earth and the sky that we praise are great and give us the famous food and glory everywhere. On the strength of these, we have expanded the sons, etc., to the people. You give us praiseworthy power. 
Agni is rich, rich and poet. We worship you with speech. Please give us holy money. (36)
The rivers that hold water are flowing around with each other and deliver food to the ocean, the lord of the water. The path of the waters flowing downwards is uniform. The Indra who has done all these things in ancient times is worthy of praise. 
O darbh! Hundreds of old age and death pervades your knots. You have a shield to protect you from old age and death. Protect the man who wishes for protection, victory, etc. from that armor and kill the enemies of this king with your powers. (1)
 O Indra! You deserve praise. People who go with water also become like it. We wish you to fulfill your wish. We come to you and worship you. 
Permission Goddess is the whole visible world. She is present in the world as sthavar, jangam etc. and does seniority without thinking. This whole world tries wisely. O Permission Goddess! May we be in Your grace and wisdom. O permission! You allow us. (6)
O the rising and the thunderbolt Indra! We wise have expanded your praise to gain life. 
We worship Prajapati, who holds the forces that protected the whole world in the beginning of creation, the imperishable and the divine waters that took Hiranyagarbha as a womb due to the world. (6)
O deserters! You are fully sacrificial and the ultimate knowledge. You hold the host. Just as electricity brings rain, so come to protect us with all your might. 
Our best and fruitful prayers are present about the glory of Vayu and Savita Dev. We praise Vayu and Savita Dev with qualities like wealth etc. Let these two save us from sin. (7)
O Lord of the Grain, Indra! May the drunk somras please you very much and give the water. You are the great all-powerful, the sovereign and the enemy-doer. 
Just as the horse runs towards the mare for the sake of sports, indra, who has enough food, quickly goes to the somras kept in many vessels by the host. He is proficient in the great work of Vritravadhadi, he drinks somras by stopping his golden-made, horse-made and bright chariot. 
This is a beautiful aschinikumaro! When you add the horses of your name to the chariot, at that time you make the earth full of grain. May this host please you as quickly as the wind and wish for you. After this, the host receives the same food as the person who does good deeds. 
O Indra! You can reach the yajna early, so we add horses in your chariot as attendants. Archaic you walk according to the speed of those horses. O beautiful chin Indra! Let the horses bring you to the yagna. You come and drink the beautiful and well-squeezed mon. 
There Arjun could see the totality of the entire universe established in one place, in that body of the God of gods.
O agni that gives the abode! You may worship the bright and holy one in this yajna, the friend of Varuna, Aditya Marudgana and the earth and the sky. 
O moon! You are the owner of other defence tools. Prajapati has given you the ability to confirm cows, horses etc. All these horses and grains are present in you. You defeat all this. You remove the enemy and poverty from us. You remove the lack of intelligence and hunger from us. (11)
O God! Give us the same age as you are. The more dominated you are, the more domination you give us. Give us as much energy as you are. You are like the mighty arm of Indra Dev. We come to you with sacrificial substances. (25)
Brahman, the form of Yajnashesh, is the father of the one who creates himself. This rice is the grandson and father of prana vayu. The swami of the world and the one who fulfills the desires, he encroaches everyone and lives on the land. (16)
O great and happy Aditi Devi! I praise you for getting the desired fruit. 
Let us go beyond the darkness by speaking praises with the will of the gods. O many of you who have done, the most great, have been born first and dieless Aschinikumaros! Stota calls you. 
Forty-nine powerful maruts gathered together and gave me hundreds of songs. We received the gorup or ashwarupa money given by the maruts on the banks of the Ganga. 
O warrior named Jangida i.e. herb! You swallow the demon named Krita and the deeds done by her. On this basis, you are going to protect against all fears. O warrior! Protect our two-legged sons, grandsons, etc. and four-legged cows, horses, etc. animals. (1)
 O Indra! You are the biggest. Bring the best money from all sides and give me the despised man. You are wealthy and worthy of being called to assist in war. 
O Indra! Those asuras who wish to climb the sky with their maya, you turn them down and drop them down. (4)
There was neither truth nor untruth in the begining. At that time there was no realm of existence and no space. There was no covering and nothing to be covered. There was no being anywhere, and there was no pleasure. At that time there was not even water. 
The gods appointed two autumn months as its protectors from the north side and made Shyt and Naudhas its ritualists. (11)
This earth is adorned with the water of the oceans, rivers, springs and lakes. Agriculture is done on this earth, from which food is produced. With that food, the living human beings, animals, etc. of the world get satisfaction. May this kind of earth establish us in the region where juicy fruits are produced. (3)
O Jativeda Agni! We set you up above the earth and in the middle part of the north altar in order to carry the wind. 
You are self-styled. You have been self-published for all gods. You are self-published to the senses. You have been self-published for paradise. You are self-published to earth. Swaha for you with a holy mind. Swaha for the sun to be well-produced. Swaha for marichi devas. Destroy those who violate dignity. You are imbued with truth. We worship you with life and wisdom. (3)
 Wise Indra appears to listen to the prayers made by the intellect on the mountains and at the confluence of the rivers. 
O very young agni! Although we commit some sins against those who serve you because of ignorance, you make us sinless on earth. Loosen our sins spread all around. 
Just as the vidushi and the superior parish adorn with the husband, in the same way, with huge doors adorned with heroes adorned with gods, please come to the full yajna shala with the famous Indra Dev law. (40)
A man who follows celibacy wears the radiant Vedari Brahman. All the gods are related to that Veda. Brahmachari, the abode of gods, produces life and knowledge, mind, speech, heart and intelligence after apana. (24)
With gold in their hands and looking at various substances, the sun goes to both the heavens and the earth. They drive away diseases, rise and sweep the whole sky with the light that destroys darkness. 
The normal loop of Varuna makes humans sick equally and in a special loop method. I bind you to all the loops of Varuna in the same country and which is going to bind abroad, which belongs to the gods and which belongs to human beings. (8)
The somaras-like offerings given by the host enhance the power of Indra, he puts the same power in the earth and sky as everyone's mother in order to enable all beings to produce and protect them in the production of sons. The son's name is low, the father's high and the third grandson's name is in the light sky. 
O Bhava and Sharva! The enemy who destroys others through the demon and the demon who destroys the child, the basic basis of genealogy, leave your thunderbolt on these two types of enemies. May bhava and sharva, the masters of the two-legged men and four-legged animals of this world, save us from sin. (6)
The mon falcons, produced on the mountain, squeezed for intoxication and grown up in the waters, come and sit in their place like birds. 
O earth! You are the land of great dwelling. Your velocity and vibration are also emotional. He indra is your protector. May you make us dear to all. Just as heaven is dear to all, so let there be no one who hates us, that is, be dear to all of us. (18)
 O Indra! You are big-handed. You hold in the right hand a successful, extraordinary and suitable wealth for us. Please give us that money. 
       O Mon! You are great, glorious and fasting. You are going to destroy hundreds of cities of enemies. We want money from you. 
O Wajin! Heaven is your base (page) part in the world. On earth you are standing up. In space is your soul and the sea is the vagina. You interpret with the eyes. You attack the demons and destroy them. (20)
Your heart is located in the waters of the sea. You sit in the inner mind. By mixing water outside, you get the properties of medicines absorbed. May those medicines be friendly towards us. Be the mischief of those who hate us and those we hate. (19)
 O agni! You are worshiped wisely in all the yagyas. You are happy to sing praise in Gayatri verses. Please protect us with your means of defence. 
O Indra and Kutsa! Sitting on a chariot, take you both to the horse host. You took Shushna out of the water and removed the darkness that covered the hearts of the rich hosts. 
May water or medicines save me from the sins caused by the wrath of Brahmins and also from the sins of untruth speech etc. fixed by Varun Dev. Let them save us from the noose of Yama that binds the feet. May they save me from the sins related to all gods. (2)
According to Indra's Swadha mantra, water started to rain. Then the vritra began to rise in the middle of the rivers in which the boat could move. Indra killed that still-minded Vritra in a few days with a powerful and deadly thunderbolt. 
Whose life is without death, who grows after birth, no one who can do violence, who is with light like day, who is the possessor and guardian of the three worlds, has been born from the vagina. (1)
Where the restraint related to Indra and Soma with the power of the mantra never has the opposite effect. O activity! You are given by Atharva Maharishi, so you become violent of evil creatures like tigers etc. (7)
O land of old! You are well irrigated with sweet tasted water and come before us with water after getting permission from the gods and maruts. (9)
 O Mon! You are a holy and great fast. You hold space and earth. You are armored to suit your holy glory. 
Shobhankarma and Yajnanishpadak Agni know the non-perishable yajna in the house of each host and aspire to give food to the host by becoming the fruit of various deeds. Fire hordeceous accepts the entire havya because of its origin as a guest. When the fire is ignited, the host gets many fruits. 
 O Indra! On the seat of the altar, someras is kept pure for you. You get to this place soon. You accept this somersa. 
O agni! Your actions are pure. O agni! You are going to benefit all the worlds. May Agni give us wealth. (16)
For work related to agni, the strong should appoint a person who sits on the seat for the earth, the chandal to bear the wind, a dancer to dance on bamboo for the work of hanging in the balance. For heaven, astronomers should be appointed as those with green colours for the sun, orange for constellations, those with skin diseases for the moon, yellow-eyed for white, black-eyed for night. (21)
 O agni! We ignite you with samidhas. We give havi to the gods. Please call the gods to receive that havi. We are keen to invite them. Please remove all our sufferings with your friendship. 
 We call upon the pure, strong and appearing friends and Varuna devta in the yajna place to drink someras in the yagna. 
If those who desire wealth go to the rich, they receive donations and the desire of the seeker is fulfilled. 
The host who follows the path of the Aditiputras, his growth is done by both the earth and the sky together. He grows by receiving the water of the lucky sky and defeats the enemies in battle and gains both his residence. Both the variable and the constant parts of the world are auspicious for him. 
Scholars milk the ancient, glorious, bright, unlimited desires of Ritvij Som and the seer of the fruit of karma. 
The Bhardwajagotrian sages, who held great wealth for the good of all, were worshipped by Srinjayputra Pustok. 
He who knows this, he brings water with food for the guest. (9)
O son of strength, agni! You are rendezvous. By sitting on the agni booths, they naturally give houses and food to the hosts. O agni, the giver of food! Give us food, conquer our enemies like a king and rest in our unhindered yajnashala. 
 Prath, the son of Vasishtha, and Sapratha, the son of Bharadwaj, praise him in anushtup verses. Dedicate the best to them. Vasishtha Rishi received Soma named Rathantar from Vishnu, who created and created everyone. 
May Vishnu, who lives in a place as high as a mountain, admired by many people and a workman, receive the power generated by our beautiful hymns and yagnakarmas. He measured these three very elaborate and stable by taking three steps alone. 
O Indra! Tell us also the happiness that your old stotas had attained. O Indra, who has been called by many who have hurt the evil enemies, the assurses and the possessors of more wealth! What part and direction has been fixed for you? 
Oh, this desireful Indra! Give us a very powerful, a son who pleases you by praises, who performs a glorious yagna, and a wise giver. The son should ride on a beautiful horse and kill the beautiful horses of the enemies in the battle and defeat the enemies. 
O Supreme O Swami Indra! We come close to humans. O king! Indra is calling you unanimously with Varuna, so you enter your kingdom and stay there and perform yagna for Indra etc. gods and put the subjects in your own work. (6)
Indra was born as a praise by the purvedankari, the youth, Amit Tejasvi, the holder of all the yagnas, the vandhars and many others. 
Vratya climbed this type of knowledgeable post. (9)
We wish to work firmly for Sakha Roop Indra. We praise Indra, the great leader and vajradhari who killed those enemies. (37)
O aschinikumaros of many deeds! Protect us by the pak that you have enslaved in the flora and the herbs. 
O Gopalak Indra! Come with the horses and fulfill our desire well with food, horses and cows. 
 O Indra! You are a giant and a shelter. Vishnu, Mitra and Varuna sing praises of you. The deserts please you. 
Our tongues speak welfare promises. The queen is full of glory. The mind should be angry at injustice. Give our fingers a smile. Our friends stay with us. (6)
O darbhamani! You are the destroyer of enemies and the one who sings the hearts of those who hate. O king! I make Darbhamani your protector and power enhancer. (4)
This stotao! You should do the beautiful praise of Usha in front of you with a greeting salutation. Usha, who holds praise, holds the lightning that goes up in the sky. Tejaswini and the beautiful Usha shines well in appearance. 
O Arjun, have you heard me with a concentrated mind? Have your ignorance and delusion been destroyed?
The krita rakshasas which are used in the manner described by Angira Rishi, the krita rakshasas are created by asuras, the acts which have been done by someone due to mental detachment or have been done by other abhicharaks, both these types of acts should go away. The works should go across the nine rivers. (9)
Permeating the earth, I nourish all living beings with my energy. Becoming the moon, I nourish all plants with the juice of life.
It is said the fruit of actions performed in the mode of goodness bestow pure results. Actions done in the mode of passion result in pain, while those performed in the mode of ignorance result in darkness.
Hey Varun! I don't have to tell my poverty in front of a rich and charitable man. Oh, King! I don't lack the money I need for life. We will receive shobhan's sons and grandsons and do many praises in this yajna. 
These agnis are illuminated regularly during the dawn and are light even during the day. These solar agnis also fill light in the rays that appear in many ways. They fill both the sky and the earth with light. (28)
O sage named Vishwamana, who gives all meaning from the point of view of knowledge! Praise the agni by the eulogies. They give property like chariots etc. to the host. 
This revered, huge and joyful praise of ours goes to the Ashvinikumaras to call them to this yagna in the same way as the messenger goes. O happy Ashwinikumaro! You sit on a chariot and come in front of the dedicated Mon in this way, just as the nail goes near the axis. 
We praise the same wealthy Indra, who has given us great wealth worthy of worship and protected the praise of the stota. O Indra! You protect us by welfare means. 
We want to move from your form to your form. Devgan is omniscient. May those gods bless everyone to share happiness. By his grace, let us be on the path of truth. Just as Chandra Dev sees from space, so we should also be far-sighted. (45)
This is the medicine of the disease and this is the medicine of Rudra, who makes everyone cry in the end. This one-knot medicine was used in the form of a bamboo with hundred thorns. (1)
After making the chamas, the gods gave you the somers and the happiness it produces in the third suave. Apart from the ascetic person, the gods do not become friends with anyone. O great lord! In the third suture you will definitely give us money. 
Som is strong, enlightening, huge and moving in front of light. Abhayadata, who went in front of Som Som, is awake. We accept you. That's why O Mon! We offer sacrifices to you. (49)
Stota receives the power of observance from Indra, the power to see from the sun and the desire to be fulfilled by Indra. The stotas, especially those who worship Indra quickly, consider Indra's thunderbolt in the yagnas as their helper. 
Let the red horses given by the son of The Desert, Vidh, carry us at a quick pace. To my god, he has given thousands of wealth and body ornaments. 
Friends, Varuna, Brihaspati Dev, Indra, Agni and Dhata Dev strengthen your womb. (4)
O agni! The person who wants to please you with daily rituals and mantras, may be rich and charitable, attain the age of a hundred years of hardship, all his days will be good and his yajna is going to bear fruit. 
O Indra! We add both your horses, equally famous in battle, to the chariot with chanting mantras. You may come close to Soma by climbing a wisely strong and soothing chariot. 
The annawan farmer already cuts the grain and keeps it, so that enough barley can come out of it. These hosts are sitting on the seat of Kush. The host performs yagna with namaskar. For Ashwini Devas, Saraswati Devi, Patron Indra Dev, you have been eclipsed in Upyam. The book is your original residence. We set you up here for sharp, force. (6)
The immediately produced agni is held by the herbs. At that time, those herbs, beautified like the water that goes on the way of flowing, grow through the water giving fruit. Let the agnis grow in the dock of the earth and sky as parents protect us. 
Weapons cannot shred the soul, nor can fire burn it. Water cannot wet it, nor can the wind dry it.
 O Indra! All the people are humbly attracted just as the rivers leading to the sea. 
O pit! Just as we take milk from cows, in the same way, we take juice from you by speaking praises. You give us joy along with all the gods. 
Oh my friend and Varun! In the sky it is your Maya, which makes the sun wander as bright as your umbit with a adornment form. You protect the sun in the sky by clouds and rain. Oh, the clouds! You shower sweet water with the inspiration of friends and Varuna. 
We serve Indra and Agni, the best and the most happy of the enemies through hymns, hymns and hymns. 
O Maruto! The bright, loud- wording and beautiful horses attached to your chariot are driven by you in such a way that they do not delay your journey. 
O God! By your grace, nature is completely filled with nectar water showered by rain. By your grace, we will be able to exploit it for our benefit even further. You are skilled and bright in proving your resolve. We invoke you in yajna. The soothing sacrifices made in the yajna are soothing for us. We want to consume the sweet havi consumed by Indra Dev and the sweet havi consumed by Prajapati by inviting them to us. (28)
O Brave and Giver Indra! Fulfill the desire of My man. Somras is your assistant. Just as the fire burns its own basic vessel with its flames, so do you destroy the brazen asura. 
 O Indra! You are as fierce as a lion living in the mountain. Please come here from a distance and destroy the enemies with a sharp weapon from far away. Please remove the fighting enemies. 
I uproot both the black lips of this enemy in such a way that tired cows are raised with sticks. The barking dogs are driven away by throwing stones etc. and the cowherds forcefully drive away the wolves while taking the calves from the herd of cows. (2)
Jupiter has given you for me. You should live with my husband and have children and at the age of a hundred years, become my nourishment and nourishment. (52)
Hey Varun! Sin has tied me up like a rope. Get me out of it. Let's get to your watery river. My work did not stop while doing yajnakarma. Never let my body relax before the end of the yajna. 
O o fuming form! The wind blows in front of you, so O Ukha! Prepare somras for the paan of Indra Devta. 
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You are admirable among the great and the gods. Please give us the glory of earth and heaven. 
This somras is an instant intoxicating and a splendor of yajna. It is the friend of Indra, it is expedient and the delight giver of man. Give this somras to Indra who is present in the yagna. 
Which is Arjunai i.e. the drink of nature i.e. milk? (3)
O very strong and hostile Indra! You know how to destroy these cities of Shambar by power. O thunderbolt Indra! All beings and earth tremble with your fear. 
O Indra! There are many of your personal hymns. You destroy water restrictions for rain water on fertile earth. The working Indra! You even erase their names by fighting with monsters who stop raining in the sun's place space. 
O Mon! You emerge victorious in a war zone. You are going to defeat enemies. Please do lime 
O Indra! Those who roam around us like wolves for armament, let them dash them. You are the obstacle and the loser of enemies. The strings of the enemies' bows are destroyed. 
May the well-to-do agni deliver our happiness to the gods in our sacrificial house in such a way that the Son serves the Father. 
He has not left the person who came from nearby and he is not visible even when he is close. Look at the poetry of that God, that is, God, who never dies or grows old. (32)
Indra, who killed those who did not eat hymns, removed the violence caused by the enemies, after which Indra became successful. O Indra with great radiance and maruts! All the gods found you for their friendship. 
The fast-moving worms were destroyed by my mantra power. I have grinded insects named Nadmina in such a way that gram is brewed with stones. (8)
Varuna is the overswami of waters. May he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in prestige, in resolve, in God's deeds and in the form of blessings. (4)
Oh, Usha! You must permeate heaven and beloved space by the rays of the bright sky. 
While squeezing, Soma walks in the form of a stream to make pramatta by squeezing with great words of praise. 
O Indra! Just as water fills the river, so do you increase our food by accepting the praises of the former sages and our praises. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! We have made new praises for you. Let us be the masters of the chariot and your servants. 
O Indra, who does hundreds of deeds! Give us wealth, strength and children who can defeat our enemies. (1)
O Lord of men Indra! Listen to my call to protect my priesthood. 
 Som is a brahmagyani, apostles, gods, poets, sages, animals, antelopes, eagles, donkeys and flora. Som goes to Dronakalash making a sound. 
Prajpalak Savita Dev listen to our request and give us your famous wealth. The furious hymn repeatedly calls a god named Bhaga to protect us. The unable stota asks for the gemstone from the clitoris. 
Today, in the war, violent and sinful enemies are running on us, the weapons that are coming towards us, O Varun Dev! Keep them away from us. Hey friend and Varun! Keep the enemy away from us in such a way that he cannot even touch us. (2)
The son of the earth licking agni with a stream-like tongue of water licking it as a roar of a cloud. The dau-like cow fills its cloudy breasts with water by making the earth waterless. The dry earth is drenched in the water of the sun. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
O rainfeder and air! Rain water from the sky which is obtainable and complementary. Listen to this hymn and the bright Maruto! You must prosper to him whose hymns you are pleased to hear. 
And remembering that most astonishing and wonderful cosmic form of Lord Krishna, great is my astonishment, and I am thrilled with joy over and over again.
O Indra called by many! Let us overcome the evil that has come from poverty with the help of animals by your grace and calm our wide hunger through yajnas. We achieve the main wealth by staying with the kings by our power. 
O Indra! At the end of this yajna, we get your protection. Being very dear to you like Sakha, let us achieve great welfare even after this yajna. Let us praise you even after the end of this yajna. While praising you, let us receive Shobhan's sons and long life. (11)
O indra who makes everyone dance and praiseworthy! I can't find anyone but you to get powerful food, wealth, tremendous fame and strength. 
O Indra! Make us proficient in speaking by combining words of praise, so that we can praise you. O Swami of tears Indra! Equip us with scholars so that we are not destroyed. Make us full of Brahma gyan and Dev-hitakari Agnihotra etc. Establish us in the sumati of the gods worthy of agni etc. yajna. (2)
O God of Agni! You are the master of the animals that have been born on earth and those that are about to be born. Do not give up this child by life and apana air. Friends and enemies should not kill him. (3)
Jupiter slept all night. In the morning, they broke the back of the cavity and opened the three gates of that cave of the monster like a cloud. Jupiter saw the sun and the cows together in the morning. Jupiter was roaring like a cloud at that time. 
We send the praises to Indra and Agni, with the intention of protecting us, to Indra and Agni, with the intention of protecting us. 
I please Indra, the best of all gods, with praise etc. to get the desired results. O Indra! Just as more rain increases the grass, so increase the strength of this man suffering from desire and wealth including son, grandson. (1)
"Indra had killed the ahi rakshasa. This heroic deed of his should always be said. Indra had hit the obstructing asuras sitting around with a thunderbolt. After that, it rained the desired water." 
When the fire is well lit, two of the disciples have taken a pot full of ghee and spread the watering kush. O Indra and Agni! Come before us because of the intensely intoxicating and full of vessels all around us and have mercy on us. 
O ritvij and hota! You are very learned. At that time, give money for this yajna, at which time the stone is picked up to squeeze someras, the great agni is ignited and the beloved yajnapatras of the gods are brought to the yajnasthan of the earth. 
The mountains are stable by the fear of these Indras and when they appear, the earth and the sky begin to tremble with fear. A sage named Nodha had gained power without delay by repeatedly praising the protective power of this beautiful and sadly destructive Indra through his suktas. 
You enter the house being a benefactor, giving happiness to the husband, father-in-law who does household work and happiness for the mother-in-law. (26)
May The Shatabhisha Nakshatra of Indra Dev, Purvabhadrapada Nakshatra of Ajaipad and Uttarabhadrapada Nakshatra of Arhibudhya Dev give great results and provide a well-equipped house for us. Revati Nakshatra of Pusha Dev and Ashwini Nakshatra of Ashwini Kumars make me fortunate. May the Bharani Nakshatra of Yama Devta give me opulence. (5)
O agni! You are the god of gods, the omniscient, the protector of the body and the destroyer of the body. Please move on your path with the offerings of sweet ghee. You also inspire us to move on the path of the road. (12)
 Someras is Madhu Chuata. It makes a sound and fills the urn like a sea. 
O accepted substance! I accept you for a period of a hundred years for the attainment of food, for gaining strength, for attaining fast, for wealth, for the victory of the enemy and for the maintenance of the state. (3)
O Indra! Please with our greater desire and someras, you should end our poverty by giving money like cow and ashcha etc. O Indra with a sense of mind! Please be pleased with the somersas given by us and make us enemyless by violence against the enemies. Let us be endowed with the food given by Indra. (4)
O mighty, indra, called by many and multi-workers! You are going to desire force. We praise you. You give us the money with a good child. 
The well-lit, the masters of all and the desireful ones, do the word 'Som' and sit down, pleasing the gods. 
These trutsu people are indra's bad friends and knowledgeless. They began to fight with Indra and ran away with the desire to leave the war in such a way that the water flowing downwards runs. When stopped by Sudas, he gave all the things of the experiment to Sudas. 
I am ignorant, but I wish to know, that's why I am asking philosophers. What one is the one who has stabilized these six realms, who live without birth? 
May two sages, sons of Prajapati, get this sacrifice well. (26)
It is the sun rising. The chariot of both of you moves all over and reaches a higher place with the shining sun. There are three types of food mixed in the upper part of this chariot and the fourth number is of a leather vessel filled with somras. 
The sun and the moon move backwards together in the sky. They go to the oceans as infants. One of these adityas i.e. sun sees all beings and the other moon keeps getting new, creating seasons, months and sides. (1)
May the famous physician of the gods, Ashwinikumar, give us happiness, remove sin from us and drive away the enemies. 
O Maruto! Just as the sun spreads its light or the horses of the gods go far and wide, so the stosthas make your strength and importance famous far and wide. O Maruto! You broke the mountain in which the pangs hid the stolen horses. 
O Rudra Dev! Please protect those who are dear to us and those who are dear to us. Don't kill our great people. Don't kill our little ones. Don't kill our parents etc. (15)
O sun! You are a bright form and make others radiant. Just as you are filled with radiance, so should I be endowed with animals and Brahmanical glory. (21)
Calling Prajapati in many ways, Angira with various speeds came. Half of them cook havya for Rishi Prajapati, half do not cook. Surya Dev has told this to me. Those who eat wood and ghee wear Anni Prajapati. 
 O Indra! You are going to wear thunderbolts. Apart from your stotra, we will not read any other stotra in the yajna ritual. We know how to praise with your own hymns. 
At the time when the deserts prepare the clouds for the rain of shobhan water, the earth trembles at the same time as the husbandless woman trembles at the sight of the disturbances of the king, etc. Thus, the deserts with a wandering, playful nature and bright arms, express their importance by vibrating the mountains, etc. 
O man! I rescue you from the great ascites disease that slows down the gastrointestinal tract. O supremely powerful Varuna! Tell your companions, bhats, that is, your servants, not to come again and again and hurt this man. Please be pleased with the food and praise given by us and destroy our fear. (4)
Keep this kind of arrow on your bow and the desire to do the lotus, whose desire to do raman is the fruit i.e. the front part and the resolution of enjoyment, which has a substance connecting the two parts, and worship your heart. (2)
O Indra! You are born with yajna and want to bear the world with your power. You defeated the violent by gaining growth from heroic deeds and thought of good and evil. You give the desired money to the praiseor. May the truth and the bright somers permeate the true and bright Indra. 
A cloud bound by the loops of air in space wets the earth. Savita, the son of Jal, knows the place. It is from Savita that the earth and the sky have been born and the dyava-prithvi has found expansion. 
How many substances have entered the past i.e. destroyed? How many substances will be in the abdomen? That is, how many substances will be produced in the future. This, that is, God, has revealed a part of Himself in thousands of forms, how many substances entered it? (9)
The Vishnus who, being the best of the divine and the adornment fruit givers, came together to assist the yajna along with Indra, who performed the best deeds, the same Abhimat Phaldata and Vishnu in the three lokas used to please the visiting host and give him a part of the yajna. 
O great earth and sky! You fulfill the desire of your friend Stota. You complete the department of food and the yajna and sit around. 
This visible sun was visible to us for a thousand years. May this sun, which is able to be meditated by revolutionary men, put everyone in our own com, continue to inspire us to do good deeds every day. (1)
Water and medicines used as medicines are going to calm our diseases. May Indra's thunderbolt destroy the demons who cause disease. Let the disease-like arrows of demons used to hurt humans fall away from us, that is, diseases should stay away from us. (6)
 O agni! You are the only emperor. You are adorned in your favorite dhams. You fulfill the wishes of those who want in the past and future. 
O Indra! You are rich, the king of heaven, the good-spoken and the great, the most famous. O Indra praised by many! You grow with your power and become our super-admiring food. 
Oh, God! The pigeon that has been sent to our homes should be auspicious for us and let no one do evil. Let the learned agni accept our heart. Let this winged armament leave us. 
Fire increases the bravery and age of Indra Dev. We worship them with great care. We hand over our valour and our age to them. They are wealthy. May they give us life. The host should perform yajna for them. (45)
Hey, it would have been a very young and brave-minded agni! Through the psalms we have gotten your friendship. Let us destroy our enemy demons. We have received this hymn from our father Gautama. O enemy agni! Know these praises of ours. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Give distant or near medicine to us with your conceited mind for special power and give a house for our baby. (5)
When the yajnabhilashani of Soma receives the friendship of Indra, then he gives us food. 
O Saraswati! Reveal the present in your body that gives pleasure to those who invoke breast juice, from which you protect the delectable riches, which is the basis of gems, the recipient of wealth and adornment, for us to drink. 
O hosts of the Yagya! This ahuti is for, who is mighty, who is as fast as an arrow, who is as fast as a horse, who is truthful, who is as fast as a hawk bird, who wins over the enemies in heroic wars. (15)
The earth is wealthy and govati. The earth is going to give yajna means. Vishnu has separated the earth from heaven and made it stable. They have completely permeated the earth with rays. Swaha to the earth. (16)
O stunning Indra! The Gottamvanshi sages had given greetings to you with a horse. You make us rich in a variety of grains. 
O Sinywali! You conceive. O Saraswati! You protect the womb. O woman! May AshwiniKumar Dev, who wears a garland of golden lotuses, conceive in your body. 
Hey Mon! Sit on the dashapavitra with the sweet juice-dripping streams that are made to protect you. 
O friends who are disgusted and possessed of food and Varuna! People with good sense always ask you for water through hymns of praise. Just as your devotee is maya-free in the yagna, so be your importance. You destroy the sin of the giver. 
The fever in your body, your heart disease and tuberculosis disease have all fallen away like a flying eagle bird, despised by the arrows of my mantra. (9)
Havi has been accepted in the upayam for Prajapati. You are the favor of Prajapati. That is why you have been accepted. This is your native place. The moon is your glory. The night is your glory. Samvatsar is your glory. Earth is your glory. Fire is your glory. The glory that is there in the constellations belongs to you. The glory in the moon belongs to you. Thank you for that glory. Swaha for Prajapati. For the gods. (4)
The Rudraganas illuminated the earth with sirja and the world with a huge light. The sun's unspeakable light shines to the gods. (54)
O Indra! Many of your enemies have fallen into your control. Tame the enthusiastic atheist. The atheist does harm to those who praise you. Send the mighty hero against it and beat him with your thunderbolt. 
O Indra, called by many! Let us be the best of them by killing all our enemies with your help through these words of praise, which are the symbols of friendship. O Shur Indra! May we be protected by you and be pleased with the great wealth. 
Ten fingers of people with beautiful hands milk the sweet juiced and desireful Mon with the help of stones. Hey Mon! You go like the waves of the ocean, relaxing and pleasing Indra and the other gods. 
O clever vaishnavar agni! I praise you for the glory by which you have become omniscient. As soon as you are born, you complete all the earth and the heavens. O agni! You permeate all beings through yourself. 
During the war, both Sudas and Tritsu call Indra and Varuna to get wealth. There you also saved the twilights with sudas suffering by the ten kings. 
Content with whatever gain comes of its own accord, and free from envy, they are beyond the dualities of life. Being equipoised in success and failure, they are not bound by their actions, even while performing all kinds of activities.
O Indra worthy of service by the praises! You receive this offering of the host who squeezes the somras. Rejoice you in this yagna. 
 Usha, the daughter of the sun, is visible to everyone, coming away from the darkness. She removes the dark darkness with her light. 
May the gods who reside in heaven and live between space i.e. earth and sky, those who are dependent on earth, may they free us from sin. (12)
O the best horse, the best chariot and the agni with the best wealth! You call Aryama, Varuna, Mitra, Indra Vishnu, Marudgana and Ashchinikumaras for the best-ever host. 
O daughter of the sky Usha! You come with famous grains and give us wealth. 
 O sun! You are great. O light-maker! You are great. O praise! You are great. We worship your greatness. The glory of you is great. 
O Swami of speech Brahman! Just as by offering a bow string, both ends of it are stretched equally, in the same way, give me the power to wear Vedashastra and the desired means of enjoyment. (3)
Som words in Dasapavitra like a horse going to war. When Soma drips down, he makes words by becoming the desire of the gods. 
O the deserters! Just as a river with strange banks flows, so with the help of your powerful hands, keep walking without stopping. 
There is wide space between the earth and the earth. The ruling deities of these three worlds are agni, air and sun respectively. He is the wonderful and admired Vishnu, the universe, the sky, the world and the people. Be angry when I am angry due to the initiation rules of the preacher. The meaning is that just as I am ready to destroy my enemy, so should these gods also become violent with him. (1)
Only a man who knows the forms of gold in the form of nectar, that is, soul, is entitled to wear gold. The one who wears this gold ornament attains death in old age. (1)
The lord of wealth is heard uniquely in indra sangrams. They destroy the enemy armies gathered and hold on to the food they can give to the hosts. Let us be dear to Indra's friends. 
O Vishwanayak, Varuna with many heroes and praised by many people! We stay in your home. O Aditiputras, who are non-violent by enemies! Forgive all our sins when making your friend. 
O king, Vibhindu! You have given me forty thousand cows as a giver. You gave me eight thousand more later. 
There are three types of goiter from the point of view of defects. They are described here. I know the main of these cooked goiternas, which are difficult to treat. I tear it with an arrow. The second type of sultry is the medium, which is easily medicated. I break that too. At this time, I break it between these bundles like a thread of wool, which can be treated with a little effort. (2)
O Ritvijo! From time to time, you should complete the enjoyment of everyone's nutritious Indra well. You part for the air that drinks someras and moves with words. Vayu Dev drinks the milk of a proud animal. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
O Supreme Power! You protect us from enemies. Protect the strength of Kshatriyas and the knowledge of Brahmins. Walk the people on the path of dharma. Provide the best benefits. We follow you to walk the best path and perform our duties. (19)
O glorious agni! Today you climb on a bright and all-round beautiful chariot with the gods. Those who know Margao, you are in the vast sky and bring the gods here for havya devouring. 
O earth! You make our age, strength, action, action, intellect and senses excellent. O age enhancer, protects age and self-respecting earth! You protect me! You are located in my soul and never do my violence. (8)
O son of power, Shobhan, the invoking and delightful sight agni! Be illuminated with the best light! Be my son's helper and do not burn him. Let not our human-begotten son perish. 
The king is never sad, in whose yajna Indra drinks intoxicating somras mixed in milk. They walk with their servants, kill enemies, protect the people, and gladly increase the praises of Indra. 
Whatever I say, it should be sweet, whoever I see, he should be dear to me. Let me be successful and swift, I will be the protector of others and kill those who stagger me. (58)
May Indra Dev, the one who showers meh (rain) for the host, who destroys Vritrasura, who makes enemies cry, bless us and protect us. Indra Dev is a senior. We praise them. We worship them. May they please protect us. (50)
O praise worthy Indra! When you hear the praises of the psalms and want to give them money, no one can change your desire. 
These deserts inspire both the rich and the poor. O god of worship and full of work, Maruto! As the gods will, you remove the darkness and give us more sons and grandsons. 
O two of them born of agni and aditya! You both walk as fast as the wind when you hear the praise. You come to this yagna of ours. 
O great Indra! Because of your glory, your hands hold the deery vajra everywhere in the earth. 
O Gods! You are king and skill. Please come to this yajna and complete the yajna. (72)
At the time when the horses that complete the sky carry Indra, the learned stotha praises Indra through the hymns who perform the yajnadharna. 
Indra is highly acclaimed. There are brothers of all three worlds. Please increase the yajna dev Indra Dev. Indra Dev adorns with hundreds of black back songs. Karmanishtha Varuna, Stota Brihaspati and Adhwaryu Ashwinikumaradvaya are of this yajna. May the gods give glory to the hosts. Please hold money for the devgan hosts. Please do yajna for this. (19)
Our fathers, angiras, by praising agni through mantras, had put an end to the strong and firm panai asura by that word of praise and made for us the path of the great duloka. After this, he had to go to the happy day, the world publisher sun and the cows stolen by the panies. 
O dead! Whatever we give in Shradh etc. is your life. There is no other means of your life. You have received this crematorium, you see the sun. O earth! Just as the mother covers her son with anchal. In the same way, cover this dead with your glory. (50)
The rays of the Sun God shine like agni and give light to everyone. (18)
O agni, the best of the yagyakars! Worship the gods for the welfare of the hosts who wish for the gods in the yajna. You are beautified by defeating the agni enemies who give glory to the hosts. 
May strong horses be happy for us. May they be even more adorned in divine sacrifices. May these horses be kind enough to ward off invading enemies like wolves. Protect us from traitors like snakes. Please remove those who disturb us. (16)
The great agni god raines water through loop etc. for the host. He knows everyone through his intellect, just as Varun Dev knows everyone with his intellect. They worship the gods in the Agni Yagya which is worthy of worship. (18)
O Indra! You protect the hymn and protect yourself by drinking somras. O gentlemanly and multi-work indra! Drink the part of somras that the gods have fixed for you by defeating all the shrusenas and velocities and victorious in the midst of the waters. 
O medicine with a hundred lumps! Defeat our enemies or sins. Defeat those who are gathering armies against us. Destroy those who have ill-will towards me and increase the number of my friends. (6)
O glorious agni! Indra saw the group of cows locked in the mountain of the Angiras in the same way that people see the animal group in the house containing food. The people were enriched with the cows brought by the Angiras. The swamis were able to rear the offspring and the dasas were able to rear their own. 
Those who do industry for war and prepare for the yagna, both of them call the Dadhidra Dev, just like Indra. Oh my friend Varun! You hold the ashwarupi dadhidra god who inspires human beings. 
O Indra! I make you new as the Angiragothrists, worshiping you as the ancient ones, and praise you. You kill many enemy monsters against god. Oh, it's a maghwan! Give us money for consumption. 
O Maruto with specific light! The host in whose yogyagriha you come from space and do sompan becomes the protectors of adornment. 
Behold in their ranks are many powerful warriors, like Yuyudhan, Virat, and Drupad, wielding mighty bows and equal in military prowess to Bheem and Arjun. There are also accomplished heroes like Dhrishtaketu, Chekitan, the gallant King of Kashi, Purujit, Kuntibhoj, and Shaibya—all the best of men. In their ranks, they also have the courageous Yudhamanyu, the gallant Uttamauja, the son of Subhadra, and the sons of Draupadi, who are all great warrior chiefs.
O supremely powerful and very sacrificial Indra! These hymns worship you with hymns. O mortal Indra! Be a matter of praise and listen to the call of my hymn. There is no one else like you. 
O god of wisdom! Injure the hearts of the people with the iron rod and subdue them to us. 
Hey Mon! You go to Dashapavitra as a stream while dwelling in the water while filtering. O Gems giving Mon! You sit in the place of yajna. O radiant Mon! You are flowing and golden. 
O men! Start praising the Vaishvanar agni to get faster. Let us be purified by the grace of Vaishvanar Agni and immersed through Brahmavarshva and sanctify others too. We should be strengthened by food and become for mutual happiness and stay in this world and see the rising sun. (3)
Water is our mother. May water please purify us. May the water that flows from ghee be pleased to sanctify us. May the flowing water wash away all sins. We are pure and pure with water. O silk cloth! You are the body of Deekshatapas Dev. You are gentle, pleasant, welfare and beautiful. We hold you (in the yagna). (2)
I open the bonds of messages, palms, refinements and trees tied by Mann's wife, that is, the school. (5)
The sage Atrivanshi makes the sun radiant while speaking the Mahan Sammantra. 
O agni with yajnavidhata and shobhanayagyakarma! You know quickly the small and big ways of the gods in the yagna. 
Mother Aditi asked her great son Indra, "O son! These gods are forsaking you." On hearing this, Indra said to Vishnu, "O friend Vishnu! You mighty and kill the vrikra." 
O Indra! If you give me your friendship and drink this someras, I can defeat all enemies. 
The person who eats before the guest destroys the strength and prosperity of his homes. (3)
O God! By giving us grace, fill our houses with wealth, give us other things you want and make us the most glorious and supply our stomach with the best food. O God! The solution to protect us in this path is to do with you. 
O agni! I set you up and ignite you while I wish you. You too, wishing, take the contents of the home to the gods who wish for havya so that they can eat it. 
One who prudently practices the science of work without attachment can get rid of both good and bad reactions in this life itself. Therefore, strive for Yog, which is the art of working skillfully (in proper consciousness).
May this water drain our sins and evil self-respect. (11)
O you with a great light, with pure brightness and a perfectly bright Agni! You rise with your rays. You touch and play in the earth like a child touch his parents and play in their lap. 
Indra had killed the demon Vatra and freed many ushas and samvatsars, wrapped in darkness, from his bondage. At the same time, the water withheld by the vitter was flown. Indra made the rivers located around the cloud and stopped by the demon Vritra worthy of flowing above the earth. 
Wise people plough bulls into ploughs. With the desire to get food by pleasing the gods, they gamble on the shoulders of bulls. (1)
O Arjun, I know of the the past, present, and future, and I also know all living beings; but me no one knows.
Those who grow with the sentences, hymns and mantras of the revered agni hymns wake up in the morning to be illuminated like the sun in the angel agni yagnas. 
By cutting the hair of this vasa cow for the sake of any enjoyment, the young son of the cutter attains death and kills his sons by adorning the horn i.e. jackal. (7)
The industrious ordnance and dynamic mons that tremble at the enemies quickly crushed by the stones that produce oz after drinking, increase all the forests. These forests can neither make indra's likeness, nor can they make them small. 
Hey Mon! Just as you gave hundreds and thousands of properties to the erstwhile Maharishis, so at this time, tapko for our new advancement. Water meet you for your karma. 
I perform havan for the agni that destroys the demons and contains food, the means of strength. Through yajna, I become a friend and take refuge in the agni to get expansion. Those agni gods with sharp movements should be ignited by ajya etc. May this kind of agni god protect us from those who commit violence during the day. (1)
Today, when the sun rises, please engage the innocent hosts in the best of their friends and aryama dev. Make Savita Dev lucky, put them in the best works. (20)
O enemies! Trishandhi, the arrogant god of Vajra, take away your kingdom and take possession of it. O wonderful God! Come with your red flags that arise as mischief in the sky and belong to humans in the earth. (2)
The one with a secret heart for the enemy, the one who makes the distinction for the murder of the enemy, the inspector for inspection, the command for force, the wanderer for a particular area, the one who speaks dear to the beloved, the horseman for the prevention of evil, the fortune-maker for heaven, the one who surrounds from all sides for good happiness should be appointed. (13)
It is the swami of the female eagle. (19)
Taurus, who has food in the form of havi, infertile cows who have havi, Soma on whose back and who is the creator of the whole world through sacrifice and the vaishvanar agni in which he is the greatest, may all those agnis get my desire. (6)
Hey Ashwinikumaro stayed with us. 
The luminous Indra rises in the sky, giving the present Rudraputras-Maruts to humans in the form of life in all beings and with the same maruts, he expands the medium voice among the beings. The praiseful voice worships the same Indra. We call them to make our friends with the maruts. 
I praise and admire Idre. In the past, his stoetas gained growth and destroyed their enemies. If the new host goes near Indra and prays, they fulfill his desire for wealth. 
O Indra! We beseech you to come to the same wineful position that protected the Angiragothian, the dark-destroying sun and the sea. 
 O Indra! You are rich, worthy of worship and strong. You should accept this properly performed sommers soon. 
O God of agni! You are worthy of yajna and guardian of the grains. You must wear your fast and complete this yajna of ours. 
O maruto, the vetta of yajnakarma! Serve the agni that enhances good fortune. It has wealth that increases happiness. The deserts defeat the enemies in great wars with armies and always destroy the enemies. 
O Indra! Drink someras and become a form of death for Vritra Asura and protect our wealth in the battlefield. (8)
Indra, who is always new, great and meritorious, O host! You worship the same Indra. (2)
The shining armaments, radiant and graceful maruts, who held in their hands, wore hats on their heads to enhance beauty. 
O dead! I am leaving these load-carrying bulls for you. I add them to the bullock cart to bear their lives. Through this car containing bulls, you get yama's house. (56)
O host! We also do the deeds of the beloved fruit for you. Your malevolent man should darken the form of hell. Cow, vine, food, age and effort should come near us and drive away the death etc. (49)
 O agni! You are the protector. You are very famous 
 O hosts! Mitra and Varuna are both admired among the gods. Both gods are emperors. Both gods generate light. 
May the three gods of Friend Gods, Aryaman Devta and Durdharsha (strong majestic) Varuna be pleased to protect us. (31)
Arjun said: O Janardan, if you consider knowledge superior to action, then why do you ask me to wage this terrible war? My intellect is bewildered by your ambiguous advice. Please tell me decisively the one path by which I may attain the highest good.
Just as the wind breaks the trees and vegetation with its power, so this gem should protect me by destroying my previous and later enemies. (13)
O agni called by hosts and with shobhan yajna! You are well lit and do havan of indradi devas. You're going to bear the right. 
If I am a demon or I destroy the lives of men, I will die today. Otherwise, the ten brave sons of the one who calls me a demon in vain will die. 
O milk! Your voice comes first, so destroy the enemy army and preach the true words on the earth. (6)
O Indra! Inspired by you, I have prepared Purodash in the Yagya. I first speak this stotra in the form of a hymn. 
O Indra! Make me happy, desire my long life, and sharpen my intellect like a sword. Understand what I am doing to make you yours and equip me with godly protectors. 
O bride! You were Som's wife first. After this, you became the wife of Gandharva. After this, your third husband became Agni Dev. I man is your fourth husband. (3)
Fearing Indra's anger, all the people worship Indra in this way, just as the rivers bow down before the ocean. 
O Indra! We do not know your force by which you killed the sons of a demon named Varshikh. O Indra! It was from the sound of the thunderbolt thrown by you that the sons of Varshikh, the very sacrifice, died. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! Your chariot is very dear and strong. He carries money. The worshiping sages adorn him with their prayers. Both of you are knowledgeable of sweet sciences. Listen to our prayers. 
O Indra! When you add horses with your various deeds to the chariot, only then does the psalm give a thunderbolt in your hand. O Indra with unintelligent deeds! You destroy your enemies with the same thunderbolt. O Indra invoked by many hosts! You penetrate many parts of the enemies through the same thunderbolt. 
It is a selectable and non-fragmentable earth. It will give us happiness. May it bless our sons and protect odan like an appointed protector. (11)
Obey you and protect you. Salutations to those realizations etc. May this be a great sacrifice for them. (14)
O Gopal! Make a chill of male and female in the ears of cow calves and calves with a red weapon made of copper. Ashwinikumar also made a similar chill in his ears. May it gain an excess in number in the form of Chilla Puja. (2)
 O Mon! We wish to be friends with you who are purified by filtering in a sieve. 
In the rainy season, just as the frog crosses the earth, in the same way you cross the earth and go up. By the grace of agni, the air is pleasant for us. Friends and Varun Devta should also be engaged in the work of giving us happiness. Just as agni consumes straws etc., so end our grief. (39)
Yajna belongs to them and they belong to yajna and are the top form of yajna. (12)
 O Indra! We are your friend. You are powerful. Under your umbrella, we should never be afraid of anyone. You are unbeatable and a winner. We salute you. 
 This somerus is reaching humans as quickly as the hawk bird reaches its prey and the lover goes to his girlfriend. 
The heron is the bird for the sun. For friend Dev, there are chataks, sujays and shayandaks. For Saraswati Devi, there are mainas, for Prithvi Devi there are sehi birds and for Manu Dev there are lions, wolves, snakes. For the sea, the human parrot is a bird. (33)
We know the Sun, the father of hundreds of powers and arrows. O patient! I destroy your urinary diseases with this arrow. Your urine stored in the stomach came out and fell on the ground. (5)
O Aghnya! You cut off the head of that god to thwart the act of violent agadhi. (14)
Inspired by the gods, the air moves and which provides five interconnected directions i.e. East, West, North, South and Above. Who is the god who considers Ahuti to be very great, who is the leader of water? (35)
The charioteer connect two beautiful red coloured and powerful horses, on either side of the chariot, named Hari in the chariot of Indra. Those horses are capable of carrying Indra and his charioteer. 
The spreading rays of the same agni that kanva with revered guests ignited from the sun are shining. These are our verses and we increase the same agni. 
O Vishwakarma! You worship the earth and the earth and the earth more than you are, in this yajna, the people who perform yajna are faint and the wealthy Vishwakarma is the giver of heaven. 
This is the great and great Aditi! Let us keep the sinless alive, so that our sons may live. 
O Indra! After you wear the loving friend Sun, you wear the Tibra Vajra with your oz. (7)
The people who praise with the desire to attain divinity themselves, are targeting towards the wealthy, powerful and famous host of yagna, and praising him in the same way as they praise Indra. 
It was! Praise the great Indra. Having got their protection, all human beings drink som in the yagnas and get the desired fruits. The earth, the sky and all the gods gave birth to Indra, the adornment of karma and sin. Brahma made Indra the ruler of the world. 
The gold that the bright Varun Dev knows and Jupiter dev knows, that gold should increase your life and give you glory. (4)
Maharishi Saptavbhri praised you Ashwinikumars and took agni out of Manjusha and put it back to sleep in it. Your defenses stay with us. 
There are three best places that no one can destroy. In these three places, the agni, the wind and the sun of Samvatsar are adorned by the three sons. May the devgans, consisting of yajnaadi karma, fast-paced and extra-destructive, come to all the three saavans of our yajna. 
When the idea of praising Indra comes to my mind, I praise. I praise Indra even before the inauspicious day comes. Just as the people on both sides call upon the boatman, so the people of both our mother and father families call upon you with the thought of crossing through with grief. 
Give all hosts to Yama, night and the imaginary part of the day. The brightness of the sun rises repeatedly for Yama. The people who have a relationship between the two are yama's brothers with Dyava and Prithvivi day and night. Make Yummy your own to someone other than your brother Yama. 
O vegetation! Bring the gods closer to us. Take the havan to the agni and vegetable gods who perform the rites of the animal. Perform yajna in the form of a very true form of agni. They know the births of the gods. 
Indra Dev is the door of gods. Indra Dev also prevents harmful elements and dust clouds in childhood, youth and childhood. May they please give glory to the host and assume splendor. They should kindly perform yagna for peace in the host's house. O host! You perform yajna for Indra Dev. (13)
O agni! We will be protected by you and afflict the enemies. We who wish for wealth ignite you with a havya. May we succeed in the yagnas and victory in the wars. O son of strength, agni! Let us get a re-grandson with money. 
The king should respect the king whose guest such a special knowledgeable vratya is. By doing this, the vartya does not destroy the nation and the kshatriya power. (2)
The burning of this fever, which burns organs like the agni that burns wet and dry, is prevalent all over the body. At that time, the person leaves this world, lamenting like a manic. This type of strong bile fever should leave us and go to a characterless man. (1)
In the one-wheeled chariot of the sun, seven rays are added which are sliding and defeating other lights. A horse pulls the chariot of those suns worthy of being greeted by the seven sages. The wheel of the sun's chariot has three navels in the form of summer, rain and winter season. This non-shabby wheel always rotates. The whole world is dependent on the determination of the sun. (2)
May men skilled in praising be able to subdue the agni, those with sharp, fast, bearing the desired fruit and the dynamic. 
Indra had taken out the cows hidden in the cavity and gave them to the Angiragotrian sages and turned the force that stole the cows. 
O Ashwinikumaro! I will receive the pleasant wealth you have given with the scholars. 
In the yajna of a host named Avatsar, a sage named Sutanbhar follows the fruits. They all inspire yajnakarmas towards advanced fruit. Cows give milk. Sweet milk is distributed. Waking up from sleep, the avatsars study by speaking in this way. 
The gods performed the imaginary yajna by making the man born before the whole creation as a balipashu as yajnasadhan. In this instrument, the gods, the sages and the sages performed yajna. 
Savita is located in the middle of space while looking at humans and the earth fills the sky and space with its light. Savita illuminates all the directions and their corners. Savita publishes the first, after and middle passages. 
O tree called Putadru! You are a body full of agni. You are the destroyer of demons and enemies and the one who brings out disease. (28)
Just as the daughter of the father goes to the groom ornately, so the soma, being squeezed, is attained to the air. 
 O Mon! You sit in a sweet, watery and high place. You are pure by filtering. You are ready to be happy and ready in water for Indra. 
Like the Kanvagotrian sages, the bhrigugotrian sages have also found the famous and omnipresent Indra. People named Priyamedha had worshipped Indra by praising him while exalting him. 
The whole world is surrounded by the sky. This world is dependent on earth. I salute the earth and the world in the form of wealth. (4)
 O brave men! Indra, please make you happy. Your arms are furious. You can't be made subject to shrew. You attack them and win. 
O Indra! Come here and eat the shobhan purodash of roasted barley in the afternoon yajna. Ready in your service, when the parrot, who moves around like a bull to praise you, gives you the best praise, you eat the purodash. 
O adhikyo! Worship the bali Indra, whom a hundred hymns praise together and who attains heaven. Indra's chariot moves very fast towards the yagna like a fast-moving horse. I request Indra through my praises to protect me by climbing on the same chariot. 
O Prajapati! You are Bhuvanpati. All the houses above are located by your grace. You give happiness to Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Swaha for you. (44)
O God of agni! Your superior wisdom, which has diverse appearances and does not leave us and goes elsewhere, increase us in the same way that the stream of clouds increases the vegetation. O abode and the Jativeda agni! Give us the same pro-people and all-public-supporting wisdom. 
The rich man whose debt I bear, whose wife I go to as a sensual or the man I go to ask for money in the form of a loan, O Dev! They should not say adverse things to me. O nymphs! Hold this thing of mine in your mind. (3)
All three of them are sons of Aditi Dev. They provide human beings with a long life and never-ending light. (33)
 O agni! You are unconscious in heaven. You appear in the yajna. You are traveling on earth. You are a poet, emperor and guest. You are close to people. You reveal the gods. 
O Gods! Please protect us from all around. O Gods! May your chariot be pleased to protect us. O Gods! Please protect us from all sides, so that our wealth can be protected. (36)
O glorious God! We want happiness from your iron rod that drives cows and animals. 
O strong sun! Follow the calves of color gently to this place. This grass and cowshed should be confirmatory. In this gaushala, I tie calves. I bind you in such a way that I can be your master. This is the best sacrifice. (7)
 O Indra! You are rich, very rich and worshipable. We invite you to enjoy the host pure and holy Somers. 
Khuk etc. were completed with purodash and ajya, with Indra, with the Vasus with marudganas and with the vishwa devas. This kind of character should be received by Indra and it should be of Havi Shobhan sacrifice. (1)
O you are always happy, a agni that is chosen and reinforced by the people! Hosts extend the yajna with your help. 
O Indra! I can get money from wherever I want. Whoever wants to be superior to me, I should punish him with gold, O Indra! Who else can be the protector other than you who gives me this kind of power? (2)
Just as the horse is prepared for war, so the soms who seek food for the host are prepared in the kalash. The word 'sieve mon' is made and drips into the characters. 
Hey Aditya Devo! Not one of those which are hidden or clear sins should be to my enemies. Keep sins away from me. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
O Rudra! You take your remaining havi-part with you and cross the moonjwat mountain. Cover your bow with clothes. You are a welfare doer. You cross the mountain and come to the top. (61)
The peace of the undercooked food, smell, etc. that are coming out in the stomach of the yajna should be with the treatment of a well-done yajna. They digest it according to digestion devgans. (33)
Whoever knows this, two months of spring, protect him from the east direction. Greater sama and rathantar adapt to it. (3)
O agni! You are a famous rich man and trikalgyan. Your smoke goes to heaven, informing about the yajna. You provide food grains to Yamjan. (106)
For those who are completely absorbed in God-consciousness, the oblation is Brahman, the ladle with which it is offered is Brahman, the act of offering is Brahman, and the sacrificial fire is also Brahman. Such persons, who view everything as God, easily attain him.
With the desire for food, we call Indra, the swami of food, in our yagna. The yajnas whose rituals are performed methodically. Indra always grows from them. (6)
The hymns related to the stotra are in accordance with the illusion and the expectation. The verses related to yaj are dhaya forms. "The verses that begin with the position of yajamhe are pragatha forms. (24)
O houses! Lovely and true things are said in you, you become lucky. May you always be full of food. Be vocal about your people's laughter. When we come from outside, do not be afraid of us as strangers. (6)
O wishable, dynamic and protector Indra and the wind! You must protect us for many months and years without violence. Our adornment approaches and asks you for happiness and praiseworthy good wealth. 
The form of Usha and Ratri is different, yet they increase agni. Similarly, the immovable and movable nectar form udak increases the surrounded agni. The agni, which is located in the Devyagya and calls the gods, should be worshiped giving truth to all the yajna rituals. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Today we call on your fast chariot. That chariot of yours carries the sun while going to the high places. That chariot carries speech, receives vasus and is compatible with cows. I call the same chariot. (1)
 O Mon! You are bright, fast and brave. Host sing, refine you to get horses and offspring. 
O glorious agni! You are the master of wealth. No godless person can take away your charity. 
The maruts whose splendor makes the earth and the sky shine sit on chariots as the sun shines in heaven. 
Protect me in the south direction with Varun Aditya. They should protect me in the act of stepping and in the place of stepping. They should protect me in the city where I go and serve my interest. I dedicate myself to Varun. May Varun get it. (4)
May the agni god who pervades the sky, the earth and the central part of them, who transmits in the electricity located in the clouds, who are present in the directions prevailing in the three worlds and transmit in the air, the base of the whole world, may all of them receive My sacrifice. (7)
O dear to many, aschinikumaro, who gives joy to many and has great wealth! We, the Sages of Kanvagotriya, praise you for your protection. 
Vishnu is the protector of the world. No one can attack him. He circumambulated the world in three steps, assuming all dharma. 
The deserters said, "O lord and revered Indra of the gentlemen! Where are you going alone? Is that what you are like? What you're asking us to meet, it's fair. O lord of the horses! What we have to say, tell us through wonderful words." 
O god! You are the basic foundation of life. You are the follower of the hypothetic. You are the property of property. You are radiant. You are sharp in the fasts. (8)
Please let the air flow sweetly. May the rivers be sweet. Please be kind to all the medicines to be sweet. (27)
Deserts with the same power are not small or large among themselves. They have grown up with fraternal love for good fortune. Rudra, the father of the maruts, is constantly young and a brave man. Their mother is as milky as a pristine cow. These two should be beneficial to the maruts. 
O the conqueror Indra! You destroy the monsters and the shanrus. You break the jaws of the vritra and put an end to the wrath of the unpleasant enemy who hates us. 
This mon is yours. You come in front of it and drink this lot of mon with a happy heart. O Indra! Sit on the kushas that are laid in this yajna and put this som in the stomach. 
O serpent named Nyarbudi! You stagger our enemies. They may run away from their place because of your fear. After this, you tie the feet and hands of our enemies and kill them. (12)
Manjari of plants is the former due to the first origin and Silanjala is uttara due to the subsequent production. Nilagalsala is the middle of these. (4)
The best of the chariot owners, the most successful among the successful ones, the most successful among the successful ones, the ones with the help of green streams and the help of the maruts, the Sommas pervade everyone with his lamps. 
O Indra! You are the givers of horses, yards, vehicles, cows, buffaloes, etc. and grains like barley, wheat etc. You are the master and protector of wealth like gold, gem, pearl etc. You are the leader of charity, the one who increases the will of your servants and the friend of your ritvijas, so we pronounce this praise to you. (2)
All the things that have killed and won the enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, subjects and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world. He should not be free from the bondage of Jupiter. I wrap his glory, arch, life and age and make him fall face down. (10)
O gem made of the varan tree! Just as air and agni go to trees and burn them, so destroy my past and later enemies. (14)
The somas who have made gods happy, the yajnakarta, the bright and the special-eyed, droop to see everyone. 
O King Mon! Make us happy to make us without destruction. We are yours, know it. O Indra! Our enemy is full of anger and is going to get a rise. Save us from its wrath. 
O Ashwinikumaro! When the agni sparks started coming out of the arrows found at the time of the churning, all the gods praised you and said, "Do this again." 
O Lord Indra! You are satpati and vritrasana. The priests call upon you to gain victory and food power everywhere. (37)
Due to providing havi, the keepers of the sky should protect us by increasing the agni grain and never make the hut of our homes devoid of grain. (1)
The water which is located in the sun system or the water with which the sun is located, that water should be able to give fruits to our yajna. (2)
Thirty muhurats are illuminated by the rays of the sun. They become parts of day and night. The voice of the Vedas takes shelter from the sun in the same way as birds take shelter of the tree. (6)
They are both dangerous for man with abundant loops, the bonder of the non-performing of yajna and the enemy. Oh my friend and Varun! Just as we cross the water by boat, let us overcome sufferings by your yajna. 
O Indra! You alone are the owner of wealth consisting of cows. You give us more food. 
O aschinikumaro! You complete our yajna by the glory of your chariot. Hey dynamic! You come to the beginning of the yajna like the host and go to the end of the yajna. You provide the best horse to the psalms. We will also receive money. 
O ever-new Indra! You are revered and nourish your worshippers. We call you wishing for protection. Don't go to any of our opponents. We call you just as a very powerful king is called for victory. (1)
A medicine named Aranghu took a dip in the water and came up and said that just as the falling wood is powerless, similarly the venom of the serpents should also become ineffective. O Kush! You remove this terrible snake poison. (4)
O Ashwinikumaro! May this group of praises of ours be the one who bears you the most and is closest to you. 
O able Indra! With yajnakarma, we will perform yajna to win the enemies in the war. O Indra, who destroys the mountains and destroys them! We will be victorious in wars by horses. 
Delightful as the growth of the fruit of fire, as wide as the earth, like a mountain He is the one who gives food to all and is as pleasant as water. the ever-moving horse in battle and who can stop the fast-moving fire like running water? 
O Indra! Today that deed of yours is published. You saved Kuts from shushna asura, Age from enemies and Divodas. You gave the king the wealth of the shambar monster. O Indra! Your defeating vajra killed Shambar and saved Divodas, who was fast on earth, from adversity. 
Oh, humans! I will say those heroic deeds soon. He measured the earth and the three realms and stabilized the vast space. In many ways, he was praised by Vishnu who had three stages. 
This is the highly famous Patallok, the demons who disturb welfare should go there. Become sin gods and go down into the netherworld there. All the demons should also stay there. (3)
The night goddess came and expanded all around and she attained full splendor by the nakshatras. 
I have brought this patient back from death with the power of the divine, which gives me the power to see and from which hundreds of powers of hearing, etc. are obtained. That havi has the power to provide the fruits of living for a hundred years. I please Indra through Havi so that he can rid this man of the sins that destroy the age of hundreds of years. In this way, it can live for a hundred years. (3)
O Mani! I wear You to put an end to the obstacles put in by the enemies. In the same way, I remove the rule called Kabav. O human beings! You should go on with your work, free from obstacles created by enemies like chariots with wide horses to run. (5)
 Som is a scholar. We install them near our navel for the welfare of ourselves and our children. Soma is like the navel of yajna. Just as we see the sun with the eyes, so should we see him 
O agni! This fear will go to our extra people. You increase our force and velocity in war. 
O hosts! Let us join Vishnu. Let us be their friends. Look at their works. We follow their fasts. (4)
And the best of the yajnakartas have been worthy of the sacrifice by sitting on the agni yajna-vedi. They see well-kept charu, purodash, etc. from all sides so that they may quickly kill the deities worthy of yajna and praise the praiseworthy gods. 
 Indra and Pusha call the deity for their welfare. We call them for friendship. We call these two gods to get food and water. 
O Cupid! What you choose through your welfare and gentle bodies is the truth. Through them you enter our bodies. Keep your sinners away from us and enter them into enemies. (25)
Speaking repeatedly about the future, Kapinjal inspires Vani in the same way as the sailor moves the boat forward. O bird! You become extremely benevolent. In any way, let defeat not come near you from all directions. 
O Indra! You protected the chariot of the sage Titu, who squeezed the Somras, and heard the call of the Somadharankar Tyat. 
 O Mon! You are holy. Please provide space-like extension to fulfill the wishes of the hosts. 
O praise! We desire the psalm gods. We will present our best intellect to Indra. In this way, Indra with those glory will be praised. (2)
While wearing the udumbar gem, I should accept men with two legs, animals with four legs, all kinds of grains and an excess of juices like honey, milk etc. (4)
The one who asks the guest to eat again and again increases the vitality. (2)
This liquid, wishing and various forms is designed for Indra, who gives the desired fruit. O Lord of the horses named Hari, the lord of all and the firm Indra! Drink the mon over which you have authority and which is your food. 
Let the agnis that have come across the most distant sky protect us from the enemy. 
O Mon who kills enemies with your own force! I praise you with a fearless heart so that you put the wealth of your enemies in my chariots. 
Chatak for spring, bright for summer and pheasant for rain have been fixed. The birds have been determined by selling for autumn, kakar and shishir seasons. (20)
 Friends and Varuna devta are kind to the host. They are kind to the truthful. We invoke those bright friends and Varuna gods. 
Famous agni hosts are famous by the time when they shine more brightly like the sun. The Agines who had defeated Puru in the wars were radiant and the guests of the gods lit the agni. 
O the stunning fire called by ghee! Burn our enemies who are allies of monsters. 
The rivers extend the yajna and attain the uttama soma. Mon makes this task the best. 
The son of Suryavarchas was his vatsa and Pushkarparna i.e. the leaf of the lake was his character. (6)
O aschinikumaro! Fire, the lord of the havya and the abomination, rises high in your yajna. The hymn that speaks your hymn, the same hymn is a many yagyakarta and enthusiasts. 
Indra's true words are like a stream flowing downwards. The Lord of heaven is praised by this praise of us. 
O hosts and ritwijo! Just as we fill the well with water, so we water a thousand yajnas and the great Indra with somras, who perform a thousand yagnas, desiring food. 
O agni! Prajapati Dev is the well-being of all. They make you rich. God is a savandrishta. Bookies ignite you. You are like the breast of paradise. You increase everything. (20)
May Varun Dev, who gives kshatriya-like strength and powers of senses to the hosts, please come to our yagya. May Savita Dev, the god of good fortune and opulence, and Yash and Baldhari Indra Dev, please come to our yagna. (72)
The Supreme Lord said: O Parth, One who engages on the spiritual path does not meet with destruction either in this world or the world to come. My dear friend, one who strives for God-realization is never overcome by evil.
O Indra and Agni! Both divine and earthly wealth are yours. In this yajna, give us the money that will confirm the whole age. 
O Mon! You are powerful. While filtering, your edge is as dynamic as horses are moving when leaving the stables. 
The most intoxicating and radiant Som has made the air. 
O hosts! This horse is the brother of the gods. It has the ability to hold. is powerful. Be possessed of thirty-four powers. The body should be non-porous. Please godly remove all the shortcomings of this. (41)
O the deserters! On your shoulders are the smelt of luxury in the form of a smelt of luxury. They also upgrade yajnas similar to forests. O You born of adornment, Maruto! To please you, let the wealthy host endow the som crushing stone. 
O Indra! You are the drinker of somras, the friend of all, and the vanjdhari. You do such things that we love you in order to get our desired things. 
Always think of me, be devoted to me, worship me, and offer obeisance to me. Having dedicated your mind and body to me, you will certainly come to me.
O Indra! You have become great by our praise. You are worthy of getting the part of the yajna in all the yagnas. You have become the one who defeats enemies in all wars. O all the audience Indra! You are like the best mantra. 
Half a month i.e. paksha, month, seasons along with the substances produced in them, the water that makes the words, the roaring clouds and the holy land - all these are located in the Brahman of Yajnashesh. (20)
 O Indra! You are capable. You give shelter to everyone 
These are somras and the stones that squeeze it. The pot has been filled by squeezing the somras. It is dear to Indra and Vayu. 
O rich Indra! This dripping somras is groaning for you. The stotas are praising you. Oh, Shakr! Your stoes have a desire for wealth. You give them quick money. 
The deserts know the use of praise, so all are familiar with their glory. Just as light spreads in the sky in the sudin, so the raining army of the maruts makes the whole of the land fertile. 
O agni! The wise people like Adhwaryu, etc., the masters of the people and the lights light the agni in the yagna. 
O Indra! If you are pleased with the somaras or the hymns made by me and give me food, then come to me with food from a distant land. 
 O hosts! You come quickly to please Indra, sit down. Pray and worship for them. 
Friends, Varuna, Aryama, Indra, Jupiter and Vishnu, who fills long steps, may be the givers of happiness for us. 
O Adhwaryugan! Squeeze someras for Indra, who is eager for sompan and holds a thunderbolt in his hand. He is always young, victorious, close to the whole world and admired by many hosts. (3)
Fire is like a bull with powerful archers and killing enemies with sharp horns with arrows. O agni! You have destroyed the cities of demons. 
Heaven appeared from them and they appeared from heaven. (5)
O you who are beautiful and defeating the enemies Adityas! You destroy deadly humans. O Varun, friend and Aryama Devo! We will be the leaders of your yajna. 
O wind! Come to us at the same young pace as the host you go to at the speed of a horse. You give us brave children, godhan and horsepower. Please give us money. (27)
The glorious sun is knowledgeable and revered. Surya Dev goes through Shobhan Marg. The Sun God gives shelter on day and night, shining the sky, earth and space. Everyone is crossed by the force of the Sun God. (32)
O agni! You are a peace giver like the moon. You use both hands to take ghee. You are powerful. We worship you with mantras (uktha). Please provide plenty of money to your priests. (43)
Seeing the asang king facing him, a boneless, long and a gross manly hanging on the bottom, his wife said, "O Arya! You possess the best means of enjoyment. 
This is the realist! Wake us up and make our home dry and disease-free. Give us the money we ask of you. Be good to our humans and animals. 
O agni! Bring the great gods to our yajna. These interconnected dyava-earth agnis from the chariot of the sun! You sit in our yajna. This is a joyfully attainable and swift agni by the Psalms! You come to our yajna with simple-speed and fast-moving horses.  
Addressing the herb that eliminates jealousy, it is being said that I consider the herb called Tujh, Saktumanth, brought from the district and the sea brought from the beneficial district of all people and uprooted from a distant country. (1)
The sea, the sky, and the space are the three birthplaces of agni. The sun-form agni divided the seasons and made the east direction in a sequence for all the beings living on earth. 
O leader Aschinikumaro! You come to drink somras in this namo-word yajna that is being performed by me. I call you with the desire to protect. You donate the gemstone to my husband. 
The kings to whom I am a priest should be able to pierce the enemy more than the sharp-edged floor and become more enemy army-destroyers than agni. They became sharper than King Indra's thunderbolt, that is, their speed did not stop anywhere. (4)
We worship the messengers of the gods, everyone's beloved for abode, with a flag of fanfare, adorned with famous light and the agni that consumes the yajna of the host in the morning. 
O Mon conquering the innumerable enemies! You kill enemies, you can't kill you. You tap. 
 O Mon! You give us good clothes, good milk cows, golden gold and money. You give us the best horses for the chariot. 
O act! Just as the carpenter connects the parts of the chariot, so you return to him who has connected your bones with wisdom. Your destination is the same. I am unfamiliar with you. (8)
He replied, "Make me a seat and a seating post." (2)
Please please please all the deities like horse's robe, upper cover weapon, habitat (bottom cloth), gold ornaments, ropes to tie the head and feet, etc. (39)
O mighty Indra! Come before us from a nearby or distant place. O thunderbolt Indra! Whatever is your best folk, from there you come to this yajna. 
Animals with two forms are related to Indra Dev and Agni. Animals with two forms are related to Soma and Agni and animals with small form are related to Vishnu and Agni. Infertile animal friends are related to Dev and Barun Dev, while other animal friends are related to Dev. (8)
The monster who hides his body like an owl at night, he fell into the deep pit by mouthing down. The stones of crushing the somras also destroy him with his words. 
Those who come to the agni yajnashala with beautiful flames and listen to the praises day and night, their fast never ends. 
I ask you about the last place of the earth. I ask about the will-fulfilling and comprehensive God. I ask about the navel of the whole bhuvan, that is, the center. I also ask about waku being prevalent in the supreme world. (13)
May the friends and Varuna who protected Shyavashva, Vadhrayashcha Purushamidha and Atri, the friends and Varuna who protected Vimad and Saptavadhri Rishi, save us from sin. (4)
O night with the above symptoms! Protect us in the west direction, in the east direction, in the north direction and in the south direction. Oh night! Protect us. We are going to praise you at this time. (4)
Everyone wants to see the great and bright sun after the night passes and at the end of the morning. When the ushakaal has passed, everyone considers agnihotra etc. to be karma. All these good deeds belong to Indra. 
He walked towards north direction. (7)
O dudunbhy who conquered the battle! You are kalyani, wealth-conquering, powerful and made by mantra. In the overspiration period, the mountain dances pressing its stone blocks, in the same way you also dance while capturing the wealth of enemies. (10)
The agni god of Usha, who comes like a cow, is known by the facilities of man. Their upward rays quickly go to heaven. I get the shelter of the sun. (46)
O Indra! You soon give strength to the host who serves by the defunct Mon. 
Thus the knower attains the desired. (11)
Our pitars 
 O Mon! You give happiness to human beings. God consumes you. That is why you are mixed in cow milk. You are saved 
When Vasha desires, her desire goes to the gods. Then brahmins come to vasha to ask for him. (31)
O adityas of adornment! Give us the happiness that redeems even your sinful stota from sin. 
O Indra! Our praises reach you with affection in the same way as a pigeon reaches the pigeon with love. 
Hey Mon! Thousands of your streams are being created for the gods. Wise men purify thousands of your streams. Provide wealth for our offspring the means of enjoyment from heaven. You are ahead of great wealth. 
Hey Ritvijo! Say dear and true things in praise, do the yajna karma that proves wisdom and ignite a glorious fire. By doing so, Usha with diverse light reveals the darkness-covered and sacrificial wealth. 
May the agni called Narasans, who are incompetent of violence, meritorious and with a virtuous hand, inspire this yajna well. 
We salute all the gods, big, child, young and old. If possible, we will worship the gods. Let us not stop praising specific godly gods. 
Hey friend and Varun! You both wear thick and bright clothes. The creations you have made are innocent and beautiful. Both of you, destroy all the untruths and make us aware of the truths. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You destroy the selfish. Please sit at the yajna site. 
The Saptarishis, who are sitting for gods and tapasya, have spoken about the purity of this wife. Married by Jupiter, this woman has a pure character. The effect of tapasya also brings bad matter to the sky. 
 O Indra! The host wants you to drink somers first. The host is praising you with Vedic mantras. You are with proper vision. Rudra and Ribhugan calculate you first. They also praise you. 
O Lord Indra! We are dedicating paddy, rice items, curd, malpua etc. to you with praise. Please accept all this. (29)
Pure form, truth, victory of enemy armies, superior armies, those who live close to friends, remove enemies away and remain united, these deserts came to our yagna. This sacrifice is an offering for them. (83)
We consider the fixed and permanent fast path. They mourn the snakes called Pashcha and Pridaku. (11)
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as a dying person renounces wealth, so the shanrupid Tugrued Tughra sent his son Thooju into the sea to travel by boat for enemy conquest. You had taken Bhujyu, who was drowning in the sea, to Tugrah by your boat, which was moving in space and without water. 
Hey Mon! You must squeeze that ancient and intoxicating juice into a vessel called Dashapavitra and give us food and strength. 
The great Aditya is able to serve people through those who engage in their deeds and greet them. They are pleased with those who praise. Pour the wind into the agni for the sake of those most praiseworthy friends. 
The nose of this is day and night. The top of this is Diti and Kapal Aditi. The head of this is Samvatsar. (4)
O earth! The smell of yours in the lotus, the smell that the death-dharma creatures wore in the marriage ceremony of the sun, made me fragrant with that smell. There should be no one who hates me. (24)
Rudradev, who has entered the agni due to being able to perform yajna and who has entered the waters in the form of Varuna, who has gained a place in trees, vines and herbs, Rudra has been able to create all these creatures, salutations to rudra, the form of agni. (1)
O Maruto! Where are your horses and their reins? How do you get going quickly and how is your speed? On the backs of your horses, jean and the reins in both nostrils are seen. 
 O Mon! You are pure and powerful. You spring from your sacred and powerful stream. You are mighty, joyful and king of power. You protect the hosts, you provide money to the hosts. 
The black colored iron of the miner or shovel is the flesh of this huge form odan and the red colored copper is its blood. (7)
O Indra! Just as you heard the praises of Atri, listen to the praises of the sage Shyavasva, who squeezes the Somras and performs yajnakarma. O Indra! You alone protected the member of the war by raising praises. 
O seasons! The maas, the ardhamas, the gods, and the cow are all capable of your yajna. The host, desiring happiness, receives the gods. 
We choose pusha to get more. O Indra, who has been called by many and redeemed from sin! You and God wish that we should be worthy of wealth and destruction of enmity from our wisdom. 
The gods made Sharva, i.e. Shiva, who agnid arrows from the south direction, the one who performed the ritual of it. (4)
Indra and Agni can be called happily, so we invoke them in this yajna. We call upon them for this reason that all our people should be adorned with their company and wish to donate to us. (6)
Hey leaders! You gave enough wisdom to the angiragotrian orbital who praised him. Just as the brewers distill the sura from a vessel called Karotar, so you took out a hundred pitchers of wine from the hoof of your swan-capable horse. 
Oh, God! Make it easy for you to move even on the inaccessible and inaccessible route. This thunderbolt will soon be destroyed away from us without violence against anyone. 
Oh, Shur! Let our enemies be unsavory and our friends be careful. The infinite rich Indra! Make us the best rich by beautiful and countless cows and ashes. 
O Ashwinikumaro who destroys the pride of enemies! Treat the adornment praise of the shyswho that squeezes me to the somras, like the fillers. You drink somras in the morning together with Usha and Surya. 
Salutations to Quiver and Rathkar. Salutations to potters and blacksmiths. Salutations to Bhil and jungle dwellers. Salutations to dog keepers and predators. (27)
O Sun God! You expand your rays after you rise. When you rise, yajna karma starts on earth till the ocean. You move and illuminate both the oceans and all the worlds. (10)
O agni! You save us from south, north, west and east directions. Let your overheated, unburnt and burning rays devour the sinful demons. 
Aditi's sons know how to separate malicious demons. God, who does great things and protectors, wants to separate us from sin. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! In exchange for this work of yours, all the gods gave you som to drink. You stopped the horses of the sun coming from the front for the welfare of the sage. 
O Lord of the Gross Bhuvanas, The Gods! Your favorite wealth is great. You are all possessed of the prevailing fast and yajnas. 
O million! Your names are Silachi and Kanin. The guardian of the goats is your father. You have been watered with the blood of the yellow horse of Yamraj. (8)
We irrigate water from well-irrigated, water-filled and dry pits with leather ropes. 
O school! I open and separate your bonds like the samvatsar that has passed.   Varun has opened you, Aditya inaugurates you. (18)
 O Indra! We pray to enhance your name 
O leaders and the ones who make everyone tremble! The husband of the host you come to enjoy, he expands your pleasures around by your glorious food and the enjoyments of food. 
O Indra! Drink our mon just like in ancient times. Mon please you, you grow up listening to our praises. You reveal the sun. Get us food, destroy our enemies, and find the cows stolen by the merchants. 
O Sun God! You walk with your very swift horses spreading your rays and destroying the black night to take the juice that sustains the world. The sun's trembling rays destroy the darkness spread like leather in the middle of the sky. 
Here, in the place surrounded by all four directions, the children are sitting with the desire to become young men. (2)
O Indra! The food you have given is spread everywhere and is going to be found conveniently. O Indra who wears thunderbolt! Open the door of the goshala 
 O Indra! You are a storehouse of knowledge, power and power. You have been born by the mother of gods. You have been born by Kalyankarini Janani. Just as a goat controls its food items with the front legs, you subdue the wicked. 
O leader and workman Ashwinikumaro! You rescued Atri, worshipped by five men, along with his sons and grandsons, from the sin form of the Shatdwara Yantragriha, Tushnal. For this, you have gradually destroyed the violence of the enemies and the grieving Maya of the bandits. 
 O Indra! When our words full of praise reach you, you do not fail to make the host rich and goan. 
O agni! We are your servants and you are our followers. For this reason, we become do decent deeds. May the Usha period make our deeds true. May the deeds protected by the gods be beneficial to us. We should also chant elaborate stotras in the yajna while being equipped with beautiful sons etc. (24)
 O Indra! The sun set and arose when you appeared. After that the creatures began to arise. You permeated all beings. You have produced the best yajna karma. 
May the matrishva havyavarak, the successful, the yajnaprakashak, the best protector, the messenger of the gods, the one who approaches the devas with the havi, the one born of two arnarupi woods and admired as wealth, bring the agni as a friend of the Bhriguvanshis. 
O Indra! Let your unbreakable weapon fall on the enemies with the rays of usha with the thunderbolt. Just as lightning falling from the sky destroys the trees, so do you strike the unfriendly enemies with the most hot and roaring armaments. 
Agni is the generous giver of wealth, the rich, the one who gives heaven to human beings and the guardian of Soma. He is the son of force, the king of waters and the light. They are going to be adorned ahead of everyone. (22)
This agni is south, rich and confirmatory. O agni! You are splendid. You come with grace and please give us the beauty too. (40)
O Ashwatthamani made from peepal produced in the Khadir tree! You destroy my enemies completely. You have a friendship with Indra and Varuna, who destroyed Vritra. (2)
O agni! Free the mother, father and son from the loop bonds of the guilt of pain. There are three types of pain defects, good, medium and half-hearted. O agni! You know how to get rid of it, so release the ropes of the bondage of the holding vampire. Allow all the gods to redeem the bondage of this. (2)
O Indra! Ask the gurus about the birth of those who received the land through good deeds. They have attained bliss with the help of time and good deeds of the mind. In this yajna, the praises said by aiming at you are increasing like the speed of the mind. 
Always think of me, be devoted to me, worship me, and offer obeisance to me. Doing so, you will certainly come to me. This is my pledge to you, for you are very dear to me.
O serpent! Go away from the body of this bitten man, for you are the enemy. You are not only the source of this, but of all men, so combine your poison in the poisonous serpent. You combine your toxic effect itself. O poison! Go near the serpent you belong to and destroy it. (1)
All the water which is present near the sun or the waters near which the sun lives, all those water should be of the benefit of our yajna. 
O you strange, Indra with a thunderbolt in his hand and with a beautiful chin! The food by which you nourish heaven and earth, give us the more admirable, most powerful and confirmatory food. 
Or the famous goddesses, the beautiful, the inspirations of each other's seeing and moving creatures, Usha and Nisha, drive our chariot. O earth and sky! I praise you with new words and provide a good fortune with three types of food grains, herbs, mons, and animals. 
At the time when a vessel named Juhu is filled with ghee like a sister near the mata roop altar, the agnis in the upper form are as happy as the barleys become green when it rains. 
O Indra! People did not oppose your command and rule before, nor do they now. Both God and the heroes who go to war quickly do not oppose you. 
O lord of the ashes, the one who rears the cows, the lord of the fertile land and the general indra. Come here and drink somers. 
O bright gods! The deeds by which you have attained divinity in Indraloka, those deeds of yours are great. O Indra, who has been called by many and the companions of the sages! Accept our praise for receiving wealth. 
Great sages have sung the truth about the field and the knower of the field in manifold ways. It has been stated in various Vedic hymns, and especially revealed in the Brahma Sūtra, with sound logic and conclusive evidence.
O gods! We invite you to fulfill your wish at the beginning of this yajna. O gods! We call upon you to get yagnik (yajna performers) blessings and yajna fruits. (5)
O Sun God! Today, as you rise, if you call us sinless among all gods, o sun without humbleness! We will be really useless to the friend and Varun. O Aryama! May we praise you and be dear to all. 
O dead man! You stand in this visible space, that is, the sky. You are in space purifying the body with the transformation of the soul. You should move from the midst of your brothers to the people. May your brothers be more radiant in this world. Duloka means heaven is the place of death related to the ancestors. Do not abandon that world, that is, live there for a long time. (73)
O enemies! I have become better than you by taking away your yogaksham. I've climbed on your head. Just as the frogs speak in the water, so do you scream under my feet. 
O the deserters! Come quickly to the yagnabhoomi by your speeding vehicle. Be satisfied with the service done by the wise. 
I was the only Manu. I am Savita. The meritorious Kandhivan Rishi is also me. I had embellished Arjuni's son Kutsa. I am the same as the ushana poet. O men! Look at me. 
Hey, it was! Don't condemn the Global Fire. By receiving those vows, we give this donation to the dying and full-knowledge hosts. They are brilliant, without death, with a specific intellect, the best and the greatest of leaders. 
O God of soil! Devmata is the desirable of all and the mine of all divine qualities. Please stay on the ground. Please dig you up like Devmata Angira. May god and wife bless you with all divine qualities on earth. Please dig and dig you like Angira. May The Goddess bless all the divine qualities. Please ignite and dig you like Angira. May the Goddess be blessed with divine qualities. O God of soil! Give you the grace of cooking like Angira Rishi. May The Goddess bless her with constant movement. (61)
"Just as the air, the forest, and the sea tremble, so may your ten-month-old womb come out with Zarayu." 
Those who look around at the ingredients of the horse from all around and say, "The meat is very fragrant, give us a little too." We have the desires of those who beg for the meat of the horse. 
May we be able to receive the permissible and praiseworthy donation of the same Savita Dev, who is free in the condition and birth of all binomial and quadruped and beings. 
Indra is considered to be the best in the world due to being rich and strong. Indra started killing Shru as soon as he was born, that is why his soldiers protect him and are happy. (1)
O mighty Indra Dev! You come to us by your power and become the enhancer of our wealth. O Nripati, Shobhanavajra wale and Shur Indra! You become a great sacrifice and a destroyer. 
I deserve hospitality. I can take over money to become supreme. Oh My God! Strengthen my wealth. (4)
O Indra! Your thunderbolt is going to control enemies. You protected the kings named Veethavya and Sudas with this thunderbolt of yours.
O agni! You give the sobriety strength to the host who squeezes the somras and sit on the cushions with the gods. 
O host! You give pathaya to the gods. You irrigate the offerings of the gods with sweet ghee. May The Vegetative God, Shamita Dev and Agni please accept these havis. (35)
O God of agni! The subjects greet you for gaining strength. You men the enemies by your powers. 
O Aditya Adi Devo! These men stayed here in the land. This man should not go to heaven from this land. We take away the protector of your man from death by the law of protection of unlimited power. (18)
O best of the Bharatas, in strong persons, I am their strength devoid of desire and passion. I am sexual activity not conflicting with virtue or scriptural injunctions.
These huge, stunning and unforeseen rays of the visible Usha come and spread, initiating the divine yagnas and permeating the space. 
We collect food grains as well as salmon to get the ultimate ageable wealth. Let nirtrati eat all our food grains and go to a distant country. 
 O agni! You are ready to rain the quickly generated flames. You are ajar, samidha yukta and messenger of the gods. The smoke of your flames reaches the gods 
O most revered and the best of the leaders Indra! Fill your stomach with somras to get the great wealth of enemies. O Rich Indra! For the sake of wealth, you also destroy the fortified cities of the enemies. 
Savita Dev with long arms rises for the happiness of the world and spreads his hands. The most holy water flows for their work and the air moves around in the sky spread all over the place. 
This bull has drunk the water very happily. It digs a pile of mud with its horns and leads to the enemy. This bull with hanging heavy scrotums strikes the arms of the moving enemy, desiring food. 
The agni that emigrated to me and roamed in many difficult places was appointed by the gods as the one who carried the vehicle. The gods thought that these agnis knew everything, so we would complete the yajna with the praises of our five paths, three types and seven verses. 
Angira, born from the semen of prana by truth statement, is considered to be the first i.e. the best in the yagyashala. (2)
The man who comes to whom the agni heats up, he is repeatedly lying in the cycle of movement and attains degradation. (52)
The Marudgans bent the well towards the sage Gautama and quenched their thirst by giving him water. The light maruts came to protect sage Gautama and satisfied him with the water of life. 
O Mon! You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev. You have been accepted in the upayam for agni. You have been accepted in the kalash for the fulfillment of Indra Dev. You have been taken in the kalash for the fulfillment of agni, the kalash is the original place of both of you. Please stay at the designated place in the yajnashala. We worship you with the best of words. Accept your share in the yajna. (31)
Vasha cow is like the heritage of Brahmins. This cow actually belongs to Brahmins. No matter whose house he appears in, these Brahmins come in front of Goswami and ask for this cow. (14)
Who are you? Which Prajapati are you? What are you for? What are you reputed for? You are praised with a good verse. You are a good benefactor, truthful and king. (4)
How many gods were those who made a man's heart and neck? How many gods made man's breasts? Who made the lungs? How many gods created the shoulders? How many devas composed the peetha? (4)
The three-coloured and vegetative agni go to the yagna with their new flame. Adhwaryu etc. worship him with ghee and honey. 
O Maruto! When you add horses with bunches to the front of the chariots, you remove the gold armor. You win in all the battles. The chariot of the maruts going towards the water runs behind the back. 
Dhata and Savita are cow's lips, Gandharva thighs, nymphs are wombs and Aditi shaaf i.e. hoofs. (10)
The fire which the yajna worthy hosts hold in the place of fire regularly and install it by praising, the same fire was created by the ritwijas for the yajna like a horse attached to the fast-moving and chariot. 
O Indra and Mon! You must give us quickly the saving, the offspring-bearing and the praiseworthy wealth. Oh, very brave! Increase the force of welfare and defeat of the enemy forces in human beings. 
O Indra of the brothers! We are bound to come to you from friendship. Oh, this desireful Indra! You come to drink somers with all your radiance. 
Divya Hota performed yagna to please Ashwinikumars and Indra Dev, the vaidyas of the gods. Saraswati Devi is engaged in qualified medicine and day and night work. He milked the (metal) strength and force from the lead. In that yajna, honey, ghee and milk are obtained for Dev. May the gods please accept them. Please the host to perform yajna for the welfare of all. (36)
May the one who satisfies the gods and fall in the characters from all sides give us a house with shobhan son. May the one who performs the abhimukh yajna, the people who perform the ekadashi, the ones who perform the yajna of Indra, etc., like the likes of the beloved, come before us. 
O eternally glorious Indra! The man for whom you possess power first acquires the undefined household objects. O Puruhoot! Your brave intellect with a lot of pride is beneficial and your wealth-giving power is limitless. 
O Sacrificial God! You are capable and prosperous. Increase your potential and prosperity even more. May we also increase your ability and prosperity and become satisfied with it. (21)
O agni! You sit well. You're great. You burn while doing the strong will of the gods. O wise and praiseworthy agni! You make especially the smoke that spreads around. 
Of course, Brahmanaspati recites the ukthas (Vedic mantras) with the law. In these mantras, Indra Dev, Varun Dev, Mitra Dev, Aryama Dev and other gods chase. (57)
After getting herbs for the husband's vashikaran, the woman says to her husband- O husband! Come. Now I will speak. You never speak. You speak only at the gathering of scholars. O husband! You will only be mine, not other women. (4)
This form of the world is the form of cow. (25)
We know Parjanya, the father of hundreds of powers and arrows, that is, the cloud. O urologist! I will put an end to your urinary diseases. The urine kept in the body came out and fell on the earth. (1)
This is the hymn! Call upon Indra, who defeats many and pervades all praises, to protect him. 
O agni! Come here with Indra and drink som in the house of the host who squeezes the som without doing the violence of yajna. 
The Goddess of Pournmasi, who allows all the people, should tell our yajna to the gods at this time. May agni dev also be the one who receives the gods of my host. (1)
The best praises that are used for the gods who give different fruits 
Those holy persons, whose sins have been purged, whose doubts are annihilated, whose minds are disciplined, and who are devoted to the welfare of all beings, attain God and are liberated from material existence.
O agni! You enter the water. So that the watershed does not fall down. You protect the yajna from the asuras. Please accept samidha. Be inspired to wear the ghee of your jihla yagna. We offer sacrifices for agni. (24)
Hey Varun! Destroy our sin against the givers, the friends, the friend, the brother-in-law, the neighbor and the dumb. 
 O Indra! Listen to our voice. You take us to your shelter. Pay attention to the praise of your hosts. Please be careful to protect them. 
O everyone's sheltered Mon! Tapo through this holy stream in our famous yajna of the word thirty-four. Just as the tree drops the ripe fruit, so the enemy-destroyer Som gave us sixty thousand rupees for enemy conquest. 
O Indra! You make the people and the people without sacrificial pain by pressing them with your feet. O great Indra! No one is your opponent. 
O perspiration! When you roar and destroy the sinful clouds, the whole world rejoices and all the things in the world are sealed. 
It is purified by getting rid of the wooden feet or by bathing soaked in sweat and getting rid of scum or just as ghee is purified by filtering with a dung, in the same way, May Vishwe Dev free me from sin. (3)
Fathers who have been buried in the ground, who have been abandoned like a wood, and who have attained the fatherland above by the rites of agni cremation, are such fathers! Come here for dinner. (34)
O aschinikumaro! Come to this yajna. O you who are the truth! Don't be devoid of desire for us. O Aparajito and Swamiyo! You come to our yagna even from the hidden place. O you who know honey! You hear our call. 
There are thousands of cows in the back. Ahead of the ten chariots, forty red horses line up. The attendants of the grass-taking room began to rub the horses. Those mated horses with golden ornaments destroy the pride of the enemy. 
O wife! I bring anxieties from your head to the whole body! The gods should send Cupid to you, so that you may think of me as sad. (1)
O agni! You are omniscient and the master of the anrons. You accept the substances given as havi. They pervade those havis, that is, they convey them to the gods. You provide wealth to charitable people. 
O ghost! You wear cow's leather as well as flame-like armor. You get covered with fat and meat. When this happens, those who defeat you with their glory and are very happy will not burn you. They are especially willing to kindle you. 
Those who sit in a chariot with Agni Dev Indra, who are the agni god who are the destroyers of the agni and the world, who are going to defeat the enemy in the agni god wars, all those agnis should get my havi. (3)
Water conceived the same Vishwakarma. It was there that all the gods met each other. The universe is located in the navel of that birthless. In him is the whole world located. 
Hey Mon! You rain from the sky, sanskritizing the uncultured place and giving birth to the host who performs yajna. 
We describe Varuna's asuraghatini Maya. Varuna has measured the earth-sky by the sun while living in space, just as one measures it with a pole. 
Just as a mother receives her son, so I mix the earth in the form of pestle with the earth. Even in the altar, there is an aquarium in the form of okhla, so do not be distressed. You have been adorned with ghee by the weapons of the yajna. (23)
O agni! You remove bandits and anaryo. We praise you again and again with your praises of all-round praises with your praises illuminating mantras. 
This is aunitidevi! Have mercy on us and raise our lifespan well to survive. Set us up for the perennial vision of the sun. You enlarge your body with the ghee we have given. 
O agni! Black sheep, lead and moon are considered to be part of you and crushed urad is also your divine form. So you go back to the forest. (53)
Oh my friend and Varun! The sun plows seven green horses in space in its chariot. Those horses that provide water carry the sun. The sun that desires both of you rises and sees the people and beings in this way that the gwala sees a group of cows. 
While going towards the south, the sun completes its path soon. These broad gods are the most knowledgeable. They are installed with their power. They control the whole world with the strength of their knowledge. (31)
O Indra! The presenter gave your stoes, that is, ten horses and ten shells full of gold. We received from Divodas the money that the guest had earned by conquering Sambar. 
O holy agni! Be especially illuminated to give us rich food by igniting because of the samidahas. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky should worship that food. 
O Mon! You get growth and you have your power all around. You become the giver of food to us. 
O leprosy medicine! You are said to have been born three times to sages named Shambu, the children of Angira gotriya rishis, three times to Adityas and three times to vishwe devas. The medicine of all diseases is located with leprosy soma. You destroy all diseases and all demons. (5)
Usha Devi and Ratri Devi are premils. Invoke them in the yajna. They inspire the hosts to have good love and good intelligence. O host! You perform yajna so that they can hold money for you. Can provide money to you. (14)
The agni that carries the poem should get a white-rich glow. We salute agni. (71)
At the time when The Mon is decorated like a horse and the rays of The Mon are produced like the rays of the Sun, at that time the fingers compete with each other and squeeze the juice of the Mon. The Mons who wish for hymns cover the waters and fall into the pot in this way, just as the gwala goes to the goshala to make the animals stronger. 
O Vidhata Ashwinikumaro! The best praises have been made to make you firm. They reach you in three ways. When you hear the praise, protect the host who wants the desired fruit and listen to his call as you go or stand up. 
Human beings praise the highest speed of these two-fold gods. They are the ones who fulfill the desires of human beings and are pervasive. They tell them that when you walk with thousands of soldiers, the enemies will be defeated. 
O leaders Indra and Varuna! The hosts with thick floors went eastwards with the desire to get a cow, wanting your friendship. You destroy the dasas, the obstacles and the enemies of the yagnaparayanas and protect sudas by means of protection. 
O Ritvij! Draw the skambha, which is compatible with the knowledgeable and powerful drona vessel, into the water. Let me be with you to increase the powers. You give me strength and shelter. (4)
O Indra! You rain the desired fruit. I inspire you to get the tremendous power of Som. Come to yajna work and be admired with praises and satisfied with havi. (2)
Marudgana, Ashwinikumar, Friend, Varuna, etc., dev sat on these kushas with all his companions. 
The first vyan of this vratya is the land. (1)
O Indra! The mindless should not violence you or make fun of you with the desire to protect them. Don't go to those Brahmins. 
Hey Mon! You give life-saving money to the old and young hosts. 
O Indra and Agni! The force and grain of both of you are inseparable from each other. The motivation of water rain is limited among you. 
From the same great yajna-like man, creatures with teeth on both sides were born. Horses came from it. Goats grew from it. Sheep etc. were grown from it. (8)
O Indra! Just as you destroyed the roaring and moving cloud, you made friends with us at the same time by breaking the head of a dasa named Namuchi. At that time, the earth and the sky began to move like wheels for fear of the maruts. 
Vasishtaputra Vaytsut had brought Indra to Indra by drinking somras filled with spoons by despising Pasdyuman from a distance. Indra had also abandoned him and accepted the Vasishthaputras who had squeezed the Somras. 
O school of divinity! There is a wide window in the bedroom. I open this type of bedroom with the power of mantras. (8)
O Indra! These sharp mons are for you. We have squeezed and mixed with bright milk-curd, Soma wishes you. 
The highly intoxicating, powerful, covering up the juice and giving goodness, somas in Indra's womb to give food to the host. They raise all beings. Playing on the altar, the green-coloured, dynamic and raining mons drip. 
Who is the new person who will always praise Indra with dynamic and inspiring praises? The stotas who praise Indra cannot find the glory and identity of Indra. 
O Indra! The same Somras, in whose drunkenness you rescued the cows firmly locked in the mountain circle, has been squeezed for you. Drink it to you. 
O leprosy! Your three names are Nadyamaar, Nadyarish and Nadya. This man has been rinsed for not taking your name. I am telling your name as a mantra for a man suffering from disease. He should pronounce your name in the evening, morning and day. (2)
Save Dhata, Vidhata, Swami of the world and Shanruhanta Savita Dev, Aditya, Rudra and both Ashwinikumar yajaman from sin and protect them from fierce enemies. (9)
Give hello to the friend who gives money to the psalms and to Varun. Well-groomed, these two are never mindless. Their body is illuminated by its own brightness. The broad earth is present near them, begging. 
The Stotagans repeatedly praise their defences by the Ashchinikumaras who perform sompan for pleasure. 
O brilliant Varun! Hello to your anger. You know the crimes committed by all beings. I am sending thousands of criminal men to your service. May these people become loyal to you and live for a hundred years. (2)
Rats for land and those flying in the pant for space are found. There is a law of brown animals for puffs and directions for heaven. (26)
The happy and great agni that opens the gods is known by humans and spreads light. The agni with the black path originates on the earth and grows with the help of medicines. 
Agni said, "I attain immortality by looking at everyone by attaining the glow from the present glistening state in guha by the prayer of the gods. I leave the well-completed yajna illuminated and go to my eternal and genesis place, Arani. 
O Indra! When you killed the first born cloud, the maya of the Mayandharis also came to an end. After that you illuminated the sun, the sky and the usha. After that, no enemies of yours were seen. 
These stones use words similar to hundreds or thousands of people. Due to these somlata, green stones call the gods from their mouths. These shobhan karma-wala stones worship the havan even before the agne who call the gods by receiving the yajna. 
You employ a hardworking man and force the monks to leave the house. You're about to rain dew and don't stay long. Oh, Ansampanna Usha! In your morning, the birds are not able to live in their nests. 
O earth! The enemy should not bring violence to you. Please establish the hegemony of agni in the east direction. You give us age. Be a daughter-in-law and be under the influence of Indra Dev in the south direction. Please give us children too. You are pleasant. O earth! Please stay under the possession of Savita Dev in the west direction. Please give us the right eye. Please listen to our request completely. O earth! Please stay in the north direction under the possession of Metal God. O earth! Please nurture us with money. O Goddess of earth! You hold a lot of substance in the upward directions. Stay under the suzerainty of Jupiter and be a strong person to us. You destroy all our enemies. You protect us. You are the horse of our mind. (12)
O Sun God! The seven green horses attached to the chariot with stunning rays carry you. (23)
 O agni! We worship Indra, Varuna and other gods. That's all it reaches you. 
 O Mon! You're green. You are the most wanted by the gods. You are interested in us in the same way that one friend takes an interest in cooperating with another friend. 
The creature breathes in the heart of the creature trembling with the fear of the sufferings of Yamlok. The dying creature is the sayoni of other dead creatures i.e. with the same body and eats swadha. (8)
This Indra holds our yajna by praiseworthy force. O Jupiter! You become my age enhancer. May the yajna with respect and good intelligence become our guardian and give us happiness. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
O agni! You receive our growth from this praise. We have praised you according to our power and wisdom. Because of this praise, give us the rich riches and give us food as well as good wisdom. 
Hey Mon! I see the result of your yajnakarma with my mature wisdom. O Somras! Be friendly to us when you are intoxicated, just as the Father is favorable to the Son. Protect us by hostile, for you are great. 
Oh, lingering Mon! You bring us the increased wealth in the earth. He is a wishy Mon! You give us the riches worthy of praise. 
I gamble with dice to win over my opponent gambler. O ladies related to gambling! Make me full of perfect victory. Destroy the gambler who gambles against me to conquer me, just as lightning destroys a dry tree. (4)
Indra is as terrible as a lion with bad feet and a mountain dweller. Come from the very distant sky. After coming, they should intensify their moving thunderbolt and kill our enemies and also destroy other enemies aimed at the war. (3)
Som is immortal. They enter the tronaculus at a velocity similar to the bird's flying velocity. 
O vegetation! Perform yajna towards the gods themselves by applying in the deeds as desired by the ritvijas. Make the bright and bright fire gods receive the glory. 
O pitro who sits near the red flames! Give money to the man who gives the greeting, give money to the sons of the host, and put money in this yagna of ours. 
Just as all the grains cook evenly when the air rains from the clouds or all the devourable substances are given to the yachak, so the hosts add the liquids etc. to the flames of the fire to satisfy it. The host gives the havya according to his wealth. May fire protect us from tragic and violent sin. 
The soul who follows dharma first of all and holds many bodies for this reason, who creates the speech attracted by nouns, enters the vagina first with the desire of food. (2)
When wise persons see that in all works there are no agents of action other than the three guṇas, and they know me to be transcendental to these guṇas, they attain my divine nature.
The havanvagar host serves any deity through havanarup shobhan anna, in that yagna, agni is called. Serve the agni worthy of worship by the havan who calls the present gods in the earth and sky with folded hands and greeting salutations. 
O water coming out of the cow's horn! You are the hostage of Rudra's urine and nectar. O cow's horn! You give peace to a disease called Poison. You are the destroyer of sin born from the root of the ancestors and the basis of bleeding. (3)
May I make your king enter with his wife and people in the bed-bearing pur that Soma appears with medicines i.e. herbs, may that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (5)
Indra Dev is the leader of all this. Both Jupiter and Indra control the deva army. Som lives in front of the yajna. Deserts are ahead of the army. Vishnu lives on the right side. (40)
O dhanaswamini, dear-truth-forming and annavati usha! You give us more amount of money. 
 O hosts! Somerus is succulent. You refine it. Indra is a drinker of sommers. They drink somers with great interest. You go to Indra and pray. 
O Lord of the directions and the desireful Mon! You come from the rich country and shower the juice. You are squeezed by pure and true praises and by faith and penance. Hey Mon! You shower juice for Indra. 
Salutations to each direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (31)
O Indra! You originated in the past and protected all the people from the fear of Vritra. You cut off the anti-water vritra with a thunderbolt with the aim of watering the sites. 
O Maruto! The rivers named Rasa, Anitbha and Kubha and the Indus that go all over the place should not stop you. Let the watery Saryu river stop you. May we have the joy of your coming. 
The mighty Som, who destroys many sins and gives happiness to our sons and horses, approaches dashapavitra. 
O Savita and Vayu Dev! Give us good intelligence to protect us and be happy by drinking the radiant and intoxicating Somersa. Both of you inspire the best wealth towards us and redeem us from sin. (6)
O agni that is signified and revered by humans! When will your fast move? Humans receive you. 
O hosts! You give the heroic Indra a boost. They praise and fulfill the wishes of the best work done with intelligence in completing the yajna. They respect the hosts. 
The people who wear the havan-annads worship indra sitting in this way. When Indra is inspired by walking and praising himself to come and give, indra's well-established wealth is obtained. 
From the head of that yajna form man, four hundred and ninety great ornaments of Som Raja were born. (16)
O Indra! Where did you go? Where are you? Your mind lives in different directions. O indra, who is capable of war, of war, and of penetrating the enemy city! Come. The stotas sing your praises. 
The fatherly deity named Matal gets growth with the ancestors named Kavya from the havi given by the host. The leaders of the ancestors grow with the ancestors named Angira from this havi to the god host named Yama. The gods like Matal etc. who enlighten the ancestors in the yajna and who enlighten with the sacrifice of Kuvyadi, they should protect us during the pitar call period. (47)
The one who honors him makes his beloved abode in the east direction dear to the great sama, rathantar, sun and all the gods. (3)
O serpent named Nyarbudi! Showing the sources of all the bodies that close the eyes mentioned earlier, you should go through all those who close their eyes to the enemies when you are angry and aajya. You get up with all of them with our army. (6)
O Ashwinikumaro! Give us three times the money. Come to the yajna of our gods three times. Protect our intelligence three times. Protect our good fortune three times. Give us food three times. On your three-wheeled chariot are the daughters of the sun. 
Savita Dev is the creator of all gods. We receive Ashwini Dev and Pusha Dev from their hands. (1)
This friend, Stotao! You don't praise anyone other than Indra. You don't be weak. When you go to Someras Nichud, gather and say hymns again and again praising the desireful Indra. 
O Varun, the character of Sudha and the guardian of policy! You know all the births of beings. You are infatuated with everyone. What is better than this rajagun-rich wealth? There is nothing better than this. (5)
O agni! Now you have been installed. Now please bow down to the organ. You are the mind. Now you sit down. You've been installed around. Please establish yourself with your mind. (53)
The place of the migration of keshi nymphs and gandharvas roams in space and the place of movement of animals roams on the earth. They all know things worth knowing, all are producers of juices and are very pleasurable. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come up with the measures by which you both become pleasant doers for the husband's host, protected Bhujyu and Adhigu, and provided sukha and affable food to the sage Ritustubha. 
O aschinikumaro! The defence measures with which you protected Rajarshi Antak, who was killed by the asuras by throwing him into the well, the painless measures by which you protected bhujayu, drowning in the sea, and the measures by which you saved the cancerous and the adult, come here with the same measures. 
O Indra! You become happy by drinking somras to gain strength in your body. You are happy to give me more money. I am your host. Don't make me a slanderer of others. (6)
Somrup Indra is praised by the stotas and water is added to the Somras for the sake of Indra. The stream of intoxicating somras reaches indra's mouth. Just as the arrows of warriors skilled in killing quickly reach the target, so the wide, intoxicating, intoxicating, filtering and quickly moving Mon comes on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
I speak wisely prophetic praises to the great and best-refuge Indra. They are the rain-doers, the makers of the rivers of the earth in virgos, and they are going to create water for us. 
O burn! I send the aquatic part of you, which is worthy of service by the mantras of Yajurveda and combined with the gods, to my enemies. May that aquatic part strengthen me. I destroy them by the witchcraft caused by this mantra and by covering them with a water-like cloth. (15)
 O Indra! For your happiness, you have specially prepared the sweet somersa by cleaning it. Listen to the voice of our prayer. You give us the results you want. 
O intoxicating Mon! You tap for drunkenness, making the water-taking cloud down from your armaments to the rain. O you who wear a white colour, irrigate in the dashapavittra and wish for our cows, Som! You go all the way. 
O sin goddess named Apya, who destroys pleasures and souls! You confuse the hearts of our enemies and pervade their bodies. Turn your back on us and go to our enemies and afflict their hearts with sorrows caused by disease, fear, etc. You kill the enemies who want to harm us with the help of the ignorant form Pishachi. (5)
The sages who composed the first verses should get this sacrifice well. (22)
O inspiration of all Savita Dev! Make us enemy-free in the east direction and make the west direction zero from our enemies. Savita Dev should protect me in the north direction and Shachi's husband Indra in the south direction. (1)
The way the elephant folds the elephant's leg with love with its foot and the way the mind of the man willing to surat is engaged in the woman, O cow! In the same way, let your mind be in your calf. (2)
The psalms praised Jupiter in the same way that the peasants who irrigate the fields with water, the words do when they keep ripe crops, or the way the clouds roar or the group of water dropped from the clouds makes a sound. 
O Yajnaswamy Indra! You alone separate the world and the earth that have met each other. Protect the Brahmins with all your protective means. O blasphemous, thunderbolt and vrithrahanta Indra! You drink somras in the median savan. 
O Lord of water Ashwinikumaro! At the time when you went to him to select surya, where was one of your chariot cycles and where were you located for charity? 
The words of service and praise cannot hinder Indra. Indra's growing praises go before him. Hundreds and thousands of hymns please him by praising Indra. 
 Someras is nutritious, potable and beautiful. He filters and falls into the vessel. He is the sustainer of all beings. He illuminates both heaven and earth with His light. 
We call indra's deeds along with the host maruts. Indra does not run away from war, he is victorious and is without hesitation. O Dhanaswami Indra! Your power can neither be known to the old people nor their successors. No new person even knew you. 
In the seven tongues of fire, white, red and black thus together the twenty-one characters destroy the poison in the form of birds. When they don't die, we won't die either. The sun moving by your horses destroy the poison kept away. Oh poison! The honey of the sun makes you nectar. 
O rising sun! You kill my enemies. You kill them with stones. May my enemies attain darkness as much as death. (32)
O God! You are the pioneer of our path. O God! You are the provider of money in the form of truth. O God! You are the provider of progressive intelligence. O God! You generate songs for us. O God! You generate horses for us. O God! By your grace, let us become leadership children. (36)
The diseases that come from our opponents in the form of golden gifts for the bride. The gods who receive the yajnabhag should return them to where they have come from. 
The sun spreads its omnibus radiance between the earth and the sky so that friends and Varuna can see them in front of them. The horses of the sun wear an odorless, world-light force on the one hand and black darkness on the other. 
This vasha is going to fulfill all the wishes of the donor in the kingdom of Yama. It is the statement of scholars that hell is obtained if the demand is not given. (36)
O men! Don't be afraid. Don't back down. The yajna work is to free the host from distress. One guni, two times and three times how many subjects are there, it is going to make everyone crisis-free. (23)
The way the air moves down, the way the sun heats down, the way milk is brewed downwards from the cows, O patient! In the same way, the cause of your disease should be calmed down by sin. (2)
The sacrifice is cooked. (12)
O Swami of horses named Hari and Indra Dev, who gives prosperity! The somras from which you kill the asuras with the enthusiasm, that someras gives you a lot of intoxication. (2)
O aschinikumaro! Come to this eulogical yagna of ours to drink mon. O the growing, poet and leader Ashwinikumaro! Increase the hymn with your wit and deeds. 
Happy and milch sings, they go to the yajnakarta and the one who resolves to the yajna and give him milk. The abrasive streams that give prosperity to the man who gives tarpan to the fathers and who please the beings come and give satisfaction. 
O air! You combine both the chariot pullable horses into the chariot. O air that gives the abode! Mix those nourishable horses into the sangram. After this you drink honey and come to the three sawans. 
The radiant Vaishnavar agni was awakened to drink the milk hidden in the cow's trunk with his mouth, pervading the earth-celestial parents. The tongue of the kamarshi, the bright and agni-bound Vaishnavar agni is present in the best place as the thun form of Gomata. 
The agnis with innumerable flames and who see everyone in particular drive the demons out of the yagnabhoomi, they are praised by us with the help of hymns and call and praise the gods. 
In view of the agni that is without maya, with special knowledge, with sparks like a sky full of stars and increasing all the yajnas, the Ritvijas received them in every yajnashala. 
The field of activities is composed of the five great elements, the ego, the intellect, the unmanifest primordial matter, the eleven senses (five knowledge senses, five working senses, and mind), and the five objects of the senses.
The less intelligent think that I, the Supreme Lord Shree Krishna, was formless earlier and have now assumed this personality. They do not understand the imperishable exalted nature of my personal form.
O agni! You are born in heaven, born in space and born of power. We call you by praise. 
 O Mon! You are divine and wonderful. Whatever opulence is there on earth, please get all that you have. 
O agni! Save us from sin. O God of unheated agni! You burn the enemies with your overheating radiances. 
The kravyad that is going to spoil the order of life, we drive it away with the force of mantras. O agni! We drive you away from humans, cows and horses. (16)
O King! Your kingdom has been taken away by enemies. To establish you on your kingdom, call Varuna to enter your kingdom through your respective waters, Soma from your shelter from the mountains and Indra through your subjects. You come at the same speed as an eagle while being undefeated by enemies and obey these people. (3)
O Maruto! Believe this eulogy of mine. O great Maruto! Accept this psalm of mine and fulfill my call. 
May the bhag and the narasans give us peace. May the Purandhri and all the wealth give us peace. May the word of truth containing Shobhan Yama give us peace. May the many times born aryama give us peace. 
May I make your king enter the pur with his wife and subjects in the bed-bearing pur, which all the gods are ready to protect with nectar, may that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (10)
Indra Dev, the knower of the force, is stable, excellent (extremely) brave in battle. They are powerful, strong, courageous and heroic. They are famous, powerful and conquerors. You are always riding on a winning chariot. (37)
Drink more mellow somras while giving a wonderful life to the sun host with special radiance. The sun is inspired by the wind to protect the people and is specially beautified by nurturing them. 
O Indra Dev! You are a destroyer, a knight, a scholar. Please come to this yajna with the Marudganas. You remove the enemies and destroy them. Please provide us security from all sides. You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev and Marud Dev. That is the original place of Indra Dev and Marudgana. (37)
May our new praises thus inspire all the work-doers, the great, the ardent, the agile, the nityayuva, the shaktidata, the lord of the sobhan veers, the shobhan vajradhari, the lord of the best ordnances, to protect indra. 
Fire is ignited with a mixture. He is powerful, the master of all and the giver of happiness. You light the yajna altar well. Please give us plenty of money. (30)
 O Indra! You violated Vritrasura. May the somerus we have presented to you be abundant for you. May that Someras be plentiful to other gods too. 
O saut! I never want to take your name. Don't be happy with my husband. I'm sending you too far. (3)
Oh, Usha! give us glory, brave men, servants, horses and food. O Usha with wealth! Be pleased with the hymn containing shobhanayagna and reveal to us food and enough wealth. 
The desire and resolve I make should be true. May I stay away from all kinds of sins and may Vishwa Dev protect me. (4)
O Puruhut Indra! You make the present, the asura vrithra, which is present, hindering and thundering with the mother demon, powdered without hands. O Indra! Kill with your power by neutralizing the growing and violent circle. 
The one who ridicules such a scholar and the one who observes the fast becomes the culprit of the yajna and the one who does not perform it, the vamdev relative, the yajna, the host and the animals. (11)
O God of Agni! You end the anger of thousands of enemies and protect us from all sides. Those willing to hurt us should be humble in front of us and leave in front of us. (2)
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You increase the yajna. Duly refined Somerus is presented to you for the consumption of both gods. Please both of you to listen to our request. 
O Sun God! Let us pray to you always with a pleasure, a sudarshan, a childless, disease-free and innocent. O sun that honors friends! We see you emerging every day by becoming chiranjeevi. 
 O Mon! You are sophisticated and holy. Like a bull in a herd of cows, you are adorned between heaven and earth. 
Give him the knowledgeable IRA. (16)
O Krita approved in removing the demon! This is more important! O gem of unlimited power! Knowing that creatures with more power will eat you, Indra has given you more strength. (8)
May those who desire the most rare fruit create happiness with the help of work in all directions to protect me from all the r and to remove the evil. (3)
O Shur Indra! Don't kill us for committing one, two, three or too many crimes. 
Odan has eaten Odan. (31)
Because of the sacrifice of the host, which gives happiness, protectors of all and the uninformed deserts give more money, like the beneficial friend of the same host, the deserts irrigate the whole world well with the water of happiness. 
O shobhan invocation of the invocation! You come with us, sit on the cushions and enjoy. After this, be satisfied by forming shobhan groups with gods and goddesses using the soma form of food. 
Let us get welfare and rare results from all sides in the yajna. May all gods protect and increase us every day. (14)
The karm yogis, who neither desire nor hate anything, should be considered always renounced. Free from all dualities, they are easily liberated from the bonds of material energy.
O stones! Remove from us the suffering people and the evil-doers. You make the cows equal to the opulents for us. 
We are familiar with the energy of Ashwavati and Somvati to remove evil. This energy is the nutrient of energy. (81)
We call Indra at the beginning and end of the yajna. We call Indra while serving. 
The fingers inspire the juice-dripping and the motivator of yajnakarma to remove Som and the stotas praise him well with their praises. 
I praise savita, the creator of the creators, the protector of the gross universe, the divine, the redeemer of all fears and the enemy. Ashwinikumar and Jupiter! Protect this yajna and host from sin. 
O Indra! You're great. Your strength is accepted by the food-rich dyava-earthis. 
As the sun rises upwards, take shelter for wider and faster and support all groups of human beings. They look similar to the glittering day in. They should be intense by listening to the praises made by the Prajapati. 
O Vasa Gau! You are the mother of Kshatriyas. O swadha means food! Vasha Gau is your mother. Yajna vasha is the armament of cow. The mind, that is, the intellect, has been born in The Vasha Gau. (18)
Indra is a benefactor and our friend. May they give us horses, cows and food called barley. Indra gives money like a cow that gives more milk. (3)
Mon covers the nuns and treats all the patients. Soma sees even when he is high and walks even when lulle. 
Rudra Dev Ganas has been praised with fifteen prayers and summer season. Vishal Yash establishes Havi for Indra Dev with the force of F. May Indra Dev be pleased to hold strength and life for us. (24)
The men who had seen the very predecessors lighting up the ushas, were finished. Usha is seen by us at this time. Those who will see the ushas that will happen are coming. 
Destroy the demons who steal the havi given for Indra Devas and do opposing activities. Indra should attack to kill the demons, just as the axe rises to cut trees. Indra Dev should cut the demons received like earthen pots. (21)
That speech of Atharva appeared as Devkosh. Life and mind protect that grainy head. (27)
O heterogenous herb! Maharishis have bought you in exchange for broom straws. You deer etc. have been purchased in exchange for animal skin. You have been bought with great effort, so get away from here and do not make this man faint. (6)
Just as Gwala calls the cow to milch milk, we also call indra, who does beautiful deeds every day to protect us. 
But those karm yogis who control their knowledge senses with the mind, O Arjun, and engage the working senses in working without attachment, are certainly superior.
When the deer enters the field and eats barley (grain), the farmers are not happy with the strength of the deer but are unhappy with their loss. As soon as a Shudra gets knowledge from the jar, then her husband is not happy with her being knowledgeful in this way. (30)
O heroic Indra! Get this yajna of ours and make your path near us. These scholars chant uktha i.e. a group of mantras for Indra like Ushna i.e. Shukracharya. (2)
O sage Saptarvadhri who suppresses enemies! You were locked in the black ark. Later, by the grace of the Ashwinikumars, you went out and burned it. The defence of the Ashwinikumars remained with us. 
The fifth life of this vratya is vaginal water. (7)
A perfect path has been created in the yajna for agni and kush. The glowing havya goes up. The lamplighted one is sitting in the middle of the yajnashala. We lay the kusha pervaded by the gods. 
O enemies Indra! You have built a bhulok to protect us with your power while living above this vast sky. You are the ultimate limit of force. You have gladly permeated the moving sky and heaven. 
May the sun with a wide brightness rise for our peace. Let the four great directions be for our peace. May the fortified mountains give us peace. May rivers and water give us peace. 
Here Ashwattha i.e. Peepal is seated in the third dev place. Here the devas came to know the kooth with the same quality as nectar. (3)
O midday savan! You are the power of Indra. There is an excess of trishtup verses in your praises, that is why you are called trishtap verses. I accept you as a base like a stick, so you bring the end of this sacrifice closer to me. This wish of mine is the best of sacrifices. (3)
O palash tree and O medicine of meander disease! Remove meat, blood, etc. related to cough and respiratory blood disease from us. (1)
 O Mon! May you give us divine wealth and all the glory of the earth. We should have the ability to put the best money in the best works. Please give us the ability of sages like Jamadagni etc. 
Cows etc. animals should come to my gaushala. Knowing how to bring them here, Jupiter Dev should bring them here. O Siniwali i.e. goddesses of full moon and amavasya! You follow these animals. You stop these animals who have come to the gaushala. (2)
The day and night form agni that gives us the best fruits is like two such skilled women who are skilled in weaving cloth. Just as the knit women stand up and weave the threads, so the night and the day complete the yajna. They are water-rich and fruit-givers. 
O stunning Indra! Agne, trembling through the flames, has produced many kiran-like sons for your yajna. The womb and offspring of these rashmis are great. O Indra with horses called Hari! The tendency of these Rashmis is great due to the auts of Som related to you. 
The revered, the most powerful and the satiating of all, Indra, drank the somras mixed with barley sattus with Vishnu as per the earlier wish. The great Somras inspired Indra to do great deeds. May the truth and the bright somers permeate the true and the bright Indra. 
 Knight Indra looks at Som with his eyes. Som is beloved in heaven. Adhwaryu establishes them in the heart 
Prana, the arrogant god of gross power, is Prana and the supreme god who inspires everyone in his business is Prana. Everyone worships prana to get the fruit they want. Prana is the sun and moon, and prana is called Prajapati, who creates all the wise people. (12)
O Indra! Make us fearless of the violent we fear. O Lord of Wealth and the Mighty Indra! Kill our violent enemies by your protector men to free us from fear. 
I praise the agni god who gives his wealth to his praisers. May Agni Dev, the overswami of this gaming deed, be kind for the benefit of us jurors. Strike with dice located like agni god chariots. After this, I should start praising all the gods in order. (3)
 O Indra! You are a helper and a chronicler. You can make us strong with your defence tools. We request you to defend yourself in wars, including those defence instruments. Please protect us. 
Vajradhari crosses the Som Dashapavitra squeezed for Indra and mixed with cow's milk and drips. 
O agni! All these servants and brave people give you separate food for your food. 
These soms fall on the dashapavittra and are located on the stones at the time of being squeezed. Hey Mon! You're the best at drugs. 
O ushering moon of the forest! Just as you have been born with confirmation at the time of creation of medicines and flora, in the same way, may Saraswati Devi give me an excess of wealth by your means. (9)
Oh, Usha! The brightness of yours that rises before the sun and the brightness in front of which you appear like a sadhvi near your husband sun, that brightness of yours is greater. 
When in battle the knights show the strength of their bodies to the enemies and take away from the enemies the place of their ancestors, you quietly give the armor of the armaments to protect us and our offspring' bodies. You drive away our enemies. 
O yajnajal! You water Aditi (Prithvi). You mould the medicines. O stupa-shaped kusho! Soft (gentle) postures to the gods as you are stretched. O hosts! Offer sacrifices to deities, earth keepers, earth keepers and creatures etc. (2)
O ashvinikumaro who chooses! Just as you wish shardul, so i call you day and night with a havya. O leader of the yajna, Ashwinikumaro! Hosts offer sacrifices for you from time to time. You, being the lord of rain water, give food to the hosts. 
 O wind! You come. You feed our hearts 
We should worship the same Prajapati, who has been the only king of breathing, blinking and moving beings, who is the master of two-legged humans and four-legged animals. 
The agni, hidden in the water of his own free will and received by Aranimanthan, was brought for the sake of the air gods in such a way that the father draws the son who goes away voluntarily. 
O agni! Please be illuminated and radiant before us. Please be installed in the yajna and be constantly installed in the yajna. You constantly give us your light. We offer you eternal eternal sacrifices. (76)
Gandharvo, Indra Dev and Brihaspati Dev mined medicines. King Som mined medicines. He is king and scholar. He was freed from tuberculosis. (98)
O moon! You are always new by being located in the month. You create dates like Pratipada etc. by reducing and increasing your arts. You come forward in the usha period and give the gods a good share and give a long life to everyone. (24)
O strange and attractive power and joyful agni! Let us give to those who are pleasing to those who give strange, unparalleled glory, one who possesses food and riches with children. 
O middle man! You hold both ears and appoint him. He is not the kind you think of him. (3)
This gem is made of fall, dripping, strong and made of khadir i.e. khair tree wood. Jupiter tied it to get strength. Indra has given me this gem to give strength, semen and happiness. O host! May this gem give you strength again and again and every day. With the help of that force, you destroy the enemies. (7)
O Varuna! Remove from us the weapon carried by our nearest enemy or the weapon of the distant enemy that is agnid on us. Give us great happiness and keep us away from the weapons that do not fail due to mantra use etc. (3)
O agni! You pervade all the organs of human beings. Please be a benefactor to human beings and all other beings. Don't afflict heaven and earth. Do not annoy space and vegetation, (45)
O Somras, drinker and lord of power Indra! When you go to Somers, you make us happy with strong and good worded food and enough money. 
In this yajna, the altar is obtained from the altar. Kusha is obtained from Kusha in this yajna. In this yajna, sense knowledge is obtained from the senses. In this yajna, pillar is obtained from pillar. In this yajna, agni is obtained from agni. (17)
On the birth of Savita Dev, ashvinikumaras are being anointed with their arms. Anointing is being done with the hands of Pusha Dev. Anointing is being done with the voice of Saraswati Devi. Regulatory power is being regulated. The kingdom of agni is being anointed. (37)
O Indra! Although you are called by the Stotas living in the countries of the East, West, North and South, you are inspired by the Stoetas to go to the son of King Anu. Stotas also motivate you to go to Turvash. 
They sing don't be destroyed. Thieves don't steal them. Do not let the weapons of the enemies fall on them. The owner of the cows, the cows by which he performs yajna for Indra and which are given to Indra, stayed with them for a long time. 
O Indra! You are going to compete in destructive, welfare and violent wars of non-power. You are going to be faster than all. (1)
Neither break the bones of this aj nor wash its marrow i.e. fat. Take it completely and say that I enter it. (23)
 O Indra! You are rich. Your worshippers also become rich. Your worshippers get all kinds of money. 
 O Mon! Come to our yajna and adorn it. You are enjoyable. You make us heroic. Give us the best semen 
 O Indra! You are rich, knowledgeable, hostile and multi-colored. You can give thousands of types of splendour and thousands of times the power. We Kanvavanshi hosts worship you. 
O supremely comprehensive Indra! People of the human faith praise you for your protection by pleasing you by the Somras. 
Called and purified by many, The Mon gives all the food to human beings. O Mon brought by Baj! Give us food and money and go to the food juice. 
The heads of the gods, the humps of The Hulok and the husbands of the earth please the creatures of agni water. 
The gods who give the praises the ancient place, who separate the sufferings, those who are foolish and destroy the darkness, they are the gods who are the vidhatas and always fulfill our desires. Those gods of truth and philosophy are adorned. 
The stota salutation salutations as soon as they see the saluting Indra. The meritorious Brahmins speak praises when they see Indra, who is as good as the cloud. These beautiful, detestable and quick-paced stotas! You speak the pujamantra of the Rigveda near indra's ear. 
 O Indra! The multi-colored rays of the sun touch you. These rays are dear to you and they inspire your thunderbolt. These indra's cows are also dear to crows. They are located in Swarajya. 
When King Varu, born in the Ukhs tribe and the son of Sushama, started donating, we found a chariot of straight running, made of silver and with two horses. The chariot of Varu takes away the life, wealth, etc. of the Shanrus. 
O agni! Make your mind proud of us in the struggle. Through that mind you defeat the shantrus in wars. You let down the great force of the enemies who defeat others. We will serve you through greetings and hymns. 
The sun, the guardian of the subjects, should suffer by inducing water from the wide ocean for rain. The semen of the wide and horse-like cloud should be increased in the form of rainwater. O Parjanya! You come before us through this mighty cloud. (11)
 O Indra! You all wear opulence. Your grace never ends. You please impress us. 
I have received the same gem that Jupiter had tied in the hands of the gods, which destroyed the asuras, with the streams of madhu and ghrit and the streams of wine. (25)
Even if the son born of others is a giver of happiness and happiness, the mind does not take it as a son. He reaches his own place. May the lord of food, the defeater of enemies and the newly born son come to us. 
 Just as cows in the cowshed crave for calves, we pray longing for the praise of Indra. They protect against enemies. They are going to be satisfied with Prakashman and Someras. 
O agni! We praise you. You give us a son who gives wealth and fame and who performs yajnakarma. With the new Son you have given us, we will prosper in might. O earth and sky! You along with other gods protect us properly. 
O Arbudi! Meat-eating animals, flies and insects should be satisfied by eating the bodies of the wounds that are incurred in the bodies of our enemies when you bite them. (10)
When the sunlight originates from the light of Usha and becomes superior, Indra gives all kinds of wealth to the hosts. They rescue the milch cows from the middle of the mountain and destroy the darkness that is covered by their light. 
O Indra, who has many cows and is praised by many! You have appeared to drink each of our somras. We will be of go-to-mind. 
O agni! Those who hate us, please destroy all of them. Please destroy all those who hinder our fearlessness and those who condemn us. (80)
The idol conceived in the form of Virata means the mirror of rice is Jupiter and the mouth is Brahma. (1)
Snakes survive with the help of that poison. He who knows this becomes the one who supports everyone with life. (16)
O Indra! The praise made in the yagna even before sunrise has come from kalyanini, shuklavastradharini, sanatan and our fathers, awakening you. 
We are eligible for holdable money. Let indra, indra, the abode of the vast dyawa-prithvi deepti, varuna, indra's friend and the deserts who defeated the enemy, follow us. 
O son of strength and a agni of great success! We make you the messenger. You call the gods for havya devouring. Only when we beg of you, give us the enjoyment of human beings. 
Of all yogis, those whose minds are always absorbed in me, and who engage in devotion to me with great faith, them I consider to be the highest of all.
 O Mon! You give power, papanashida and livestock to our chairs. You create your own path. 
O god of sin, named Apva! You accept our enemies' organs while enticing their hearts. Go near to them and burn their hearts with sorrows. May our enemies be blind. 
Let Aditi protect us and give us happiness. Aditi is the mother of friend, Dhanasvi Aryama and Varun. Aditi's defence is hassle-free and soothing. 
O hosts! Those who are very pleasant, realistic and exhortation of gods in the agni yajnas, face us by praises. At the time when they approach the gods for the sake of the agni host, at that time they worship the gods with their heart by knowing them as yajnapatras. 
Som, who especially sees the yagnakarmo, gives the desired fruits to the hosts and exercises his power, receives the importance of admiration. 
O fierce Indra! I give special praise to your horses in the yajna and pray to be pleased with you. You come by your horses named Hari and water us with ghee. O auspicious Indra! May you receive my praises. 
Ashwin and Kartik are the two months of autumn. Both these months of Sawan and Bhadon are related to the rainy season. O god of season! You are connected within the agni. May heaven come to fruition for us. May the earth come to fruition for us. May water come to fruition for us. Let the medicines come to fruition for us. O god! You are bright, holy, like a wheat season and connected within the agni. You can extend to heaven. Please imagine you to the land of earth. The medicines should come to fruition. Let water and agni come to fruition. Please inspire the agnis with fasting for jyeshtha (nobility). May the agnis that are within us with the same mind be pleased to adorn heaven and earth. While bringing the summer season to fruition from both sides, be adorned in the gods like Indra Dev. Please sit still like an angira with your divinity. (16)
Oh, God! Let us be such an eager person of yajna, whom you protect in war, whom you trample on, and who you fulfill their desire by freeing them from sin, and who do not even know the fear by supporting you. 
Those who neither avoid disagreeable work nor seek work because it is agreeable are persons of true renunciation. They are endowed with the quality of the mode of goodness and have no doubts (about the nature of work).
The juice of medicines was mixed with Someras. Meet with the limbs of the hard limb mon of you. You met with the smell of Mon. May the flowing juice make us happy. (27)
O Krishna, I do not desire the victory, kingdom, or the happiness accruing it. Of what avail will be a kingdom, pleasures, or even life itself, when the very persons for whom we covet them, are standing before us for battle?
O patient! To soothe your disease, I salute the bull-fighting ploughs and the haran and gambling. The medicine that destroys regional diseases i.e. diarrhea, tuberculosis, etc., removes all diseases. (4)
This boat is flawless, without holes, running on its own and is prone to hundreds of enemies. May we be pleased to climb it for our welfare. (7)
O Indra! You showered water for the Sages of Angira by removing the latent word and rain-resistant cloud from your vanja. When the asuras used a yantra called Shatdwara to cause pain to Atri, you told them the way. You had provided food-rich money for the sage Vimad, in the same way you saved many hymns praising them for victory in the struggle. 
The great, the serious, the non-violent by the enemies, the desir of the enemy, and amit the brilliant Aditiputra, see their sins because of their lives in the hearts of the creatures. The distant object for the luminous Adityas is also nearby. 
We give you the south direction, Indra, Tirshchi snake and Yama. Protect it until we leave. We should get it in the form of luck till old age. May our old age give it death. (56)
In order to attain immortality, the ritwijs embellish the juice of this intoxicating Mon in the yagna in such a way that the horse going to war is decorated. 
 O hosts! Indra is a great worker and famous. You should worship him with good stotras while offering Somras to him. They fulfill the wishes of worshippers. They do the welfare of worshippers. 
The maruds, who give shobhan fruit, those who have a life of agni and increase the yajna, listen to our hymn. They should drink soma with Varuna, Ashwinikumar and Usha, who observe fast 
O host! May the waters of the desert and the waters of the waters of the region be welfare for you. May the water of wells, ponds etc. give you happiness. May the water brought by the pitchers also benefit you. (2)
 O Mon! You are great, respectable and joyful because of your good work. You give power like a bull. 
This cow causes misery when beaten and is destructive when covered. (14)
When Indra picks up a golden thunderbolt, at that time, sitting on a chariot with scholars, Indra is pulled by horses. Indra is the lord of food and great fame. 
Akash, space, mother, father, all gods, panchjans, births and the cause of birth, all these are irrefutable i.e. Aditi. 
O mustard greens! Your father is vihnal and mother is madavati. You give your greens to men to eat, so you are not like your parents. (2)
O agni! You are endowed with fierce flames. You bring the revered deities to them by subduing them through yajna and wishing to worship them. You are the one who is pompous, the one who is illuminated with samidhas, the bearer of God and the worthy of worship. You bring our havi closer to the gods. (30)
 Anne is as powerful as Indra. Agni appeared on earth to those who did divine 
Hey Varun! Open the noose tied to my head from above and the noose tied in the legs from the bottom and loose the noose tied in the waist in the middle. O Aditiputra Varun! We will be freed from sin by constantly engaging in your yajna. 
O agni that gives opinion, is weak and shatters the cloud with its warmest! The seven psalms praise you. You cross the human beings and come to us. 
O aschinikumaro! Speak sweet words like both your lips, feed us like two breasts to protect our lives, be our body-protector like both the pores of the nostrils and listen to us like ears. 
Where cows, horses, men and animals all survive, yajna karma and demons, vampires etc. are performed for mahashanti, which is beneficial for life. (25)
O fever that hurts life like a serpent! Meet the stolen maid as a thunderbolt and keep yourself away from us. (6)
May the worthy and omniscient worship of countless praises do us good. Those whose wheels of the chariot can not be harmed by anyone, such garudas and jupiters may do us well. 
Usha, the best light in the demotting planetakshatradi, spread all over the place. Its multicolored and illuminating rays that illuminated the world spread all over the place. Just as night originates from the sun, so the place of origin of Usha is night. 
We call Indra, Agni, Mitra, Varuna, Aditi, Prithvi, Akash, Marudgana, Parvat, Paans, Jal, Vishnu, Pusha, Brahmanaspati and Bhaga for the sake of protection. 
Indra does a unique job than what he does today, tomorrow, he does the truth and infall again and again. In this yajna, apart from Indra's friends, Varuna, Pusha and Savita, fulfill our desire. 
O Sunetri Usha! The efforts and lives of all beings are present in you, because you remove darkness. O vibhavari! Climb on to the huge chariot and come to us. O you wholly rich! Listen to our call. 
O son of strength and great agni! Be our benefactors and give us sons and grandsons along with food. May we receive our desires through all praise and live with the best child for a hundred years. 
Those who see this food and purodash cooking, who make this purodash fragrant, who ask for purodash made from this food, their effort should also be fruitful for us. (35)
Listen to the mantra spoken by agni to call. Fire is like the sun. He was Puru's assistant in the war. They are kings, divines and our guests. Please be welfare towards us. (34)
O serpent! Akash is your father, Mother Earth, Som Bharata and Aditi is your sister. No one can see you, but you see everyone. Stay in your place and move happily. 
O beloved, the conqueror of the great people, who is not hidden by anyone, wide around like a mountain and the lord of heaven Indra! You come to us. 
 O agni! O Indra! We have made Someras holy with our praises. Som has come from heaven. They have accepted our devotion. Please accept this somerasa. 
Heaven etc. are three folks. Among them, the two paradises and the folog are in the possession of the sun. A skyloka is the way to go to Yamraj's house. Just as the chariot rests on the nail of the name and name, similarly the moon, etc., the constellations of the moon are supported by the sun. Those who know about the sun, speak. 
Its second apana is octave. (2)
O you who give happiness and are without enemies, die! By the means of defense by which you protect the sea, by which you destroy the enemies of the Stotas, from which you gave the well to Gautama, provide us with the same means of good. 
O Indra! All the sages have started the yagna on the pond near the Shariana country. In it be joyful and rejoice in the praises of the servants. 
A string is offered on the bow that expresses virility for Soma, who is worthy of desire and destroys enemies by all. The Ritvijs, who are eager to worship, spread a white dashapavitra for the powerful Soma in front of the wise gods. 
Virat was born in the beginning of this creation. The man originated from that virat. That man attained growth as soon as he was born. He spread behind and beyond the land etc. This implies that men created creatures. (9)
You have separated the head of the yajna from the body, trembling with fear. You went to the house of the Somrasdhari Tyat. 
The arrow holds good wings. Its teeth find enemies. It falls on enemies. Wherever the shru go, it falls on the enemies. Arrows should be innocuous and welfare for us. (48)
O chariot of Ashwini Kumars! You meet with Usha with your glory and shine with the sun. That chariot goes on the path through the horse. (3)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Come to our savans with the desire to drink the shining mon like deer. Hosts call you by hymns in many yagnas. So that other gods can't stop you. 
 O agni! You are as fast as Vishwaroop and Suparna 
The sun which was gripped by darkness by the asura named Swarbhanu, Atri liberated it. No one else had that much power. 
 O Indra! We are sitting for you by preparing somers, just as bees sit on honey. Just as Veer sets foot on the chariot with the desire for wealth, we are also focusing our hopes on you with the desire for wealth. 
May we receive from you money that is not defeated by a man of adornment, with beautiful force, worthy of choice by all and by a powerful man. O Ashvrinikumaro with power and wealth! We will receive the money when you come. 
O agni! You are immortal and we humans are moribund. Let's praise each other. 
The other gods who follow Savita Dev and gain importance and power and who adorn the earth etc. by limiting them to their glory, may be seated adorned by Savita Dev. 
Let the white flames, the deadless, the pure, the holy and the praiseworthy agni hinder the demons. 
May Savita Dev, Varun Dev, Friends and Aryama Dev, who inspire everyone, remove the unfortunate symptoms located in our hands and feet. Permission Devi, 'Don't be afraid', remove all the bad symptoms present in our body. Indra adi devas have inspired this permission goddess to give us good luck. (2)
When cows milk for Indra, Indra receives sweet somras from all sides. (3)
Indra and Varuna quickly gain strength to provide light to gain great wealth. That force of theirs is permanent. One of them acts on the violence of those who do not perform praise and yajna, and the other hinders many enemies by small measures. 
O Shataudana Gau! May your fat, your bones, flesh and blood always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (18)
My ribs are giving me a lot of grief like the saut women' saut. The intelligencelessness, nudity and infirmity are afflicting me. My intellect trembles in the same way that birds tremble when they see a hunter. 
Cause me to be calm before work. May the misdeeds committed and not committed by me bring me peace. May the work of the past and the work of the future be peaceful for me. May all the work related to the past, the future and the present tenses bring peace to me. (2)
This is Panio! You run away from this place. Hit the encircling mountain and sing and return from this satyashrita mountain. Jupiter, Som, Stone, Sage and Brahmin have come to know this secret place." 
O agni! Inspire my born enemies to go far away from me. O jataved agni! Destroy my enemies that have not been born. Those who are willing to take the enemy army and fight with me. Crush them under your feet. O unbroken earth or Adina Devmata! Let us be sinless and be your gracious. (1)
O Indra with powerful arms! You kill our enemies. O agni! You consume them with your flames. (30)
O Indra! Stay here and drink mon and go to your house. Sundari & Kalyani is the wife in your house. Sit on your huge chariot to go home, or open the horses to stay here and let them eat and drink. 
The water that holds that gem to whom Jupiter tied this gem to attain the same velocity as air always runs indestructible, that is, flows. This gem provided nectar for the waters again and again and daily. O host! With the help of this gem, you destroy the enemies. (14)
 O Mon! Your juice is filled with water. You are fed to Indra to increase his fame and joy. Devgans drink you for immortality. 
O Indra! The dyava-prithvivi follow you in the same way that the wheels of the chariot follow the horses. Squeezed somers also walks behind you. 
O nishing and filtering Mon! You give us a rich and very bright money with Shobhanshree. 
Indra meets Pusha Dev, the best of charioteers and the father of the gentlemen, and kills indra's enemies. 
The currents of these powerful Mons are falling on the dashapavitra without labour, the soms make a sound while they are lying. 
This bull wears milk etc. due to ajya i.e. yajna. Disgust is the semen of this. The Sahasro affirmations that it provides are called yajnas. Yes, god! This bull, taking the form of Indra and given by the host, should be auspicious for us. (7)
Eat meat-eating animals like jackals to enemy soldiers who are full of sorrows, powdered and lying on the earth, filled with pain and crying excessively by the arrows of adornment. Our enemy, who receives this sacrifice of ours and wants to turn its pace to war with us, should also eat this type of enemy as a carnivorous animal. (26)
All the people under whom they are under, in whom the power of the unseasonal is destroyed and those who are about to defeat the enemy, they are the ones who are going to adapt to their hosts. 
We call the agnis prevailing in the water and mangalkarini. May this water endow me with the power of forgiveness. (13)
O agni! You are a fast keeper. Please protect our Brat. By fasting, our body becomes like your body. Become one with your body. Please edit our best works just as you do. You are the deekshapati. Please initiate us. You are tapapati. Please accept our tenacity. (40)
Prajapati should produce the people in the form of this son, grandson etc. and nurture this people with a favorable mind. These subjects should be of the same knowledge, of mixed mind and of the same reason. May the god named Pushtapati give me the nourishment of the people. (1)
 O agni! You deserve hospitality like a guest and are dear to all. Provide you with all the havi. We praise you again and again by installing you in the mind and in the yagyavedi. 
The intestines related to all beings are the ropes for connecting bulls to the cart, the carriage of the body of all beings and the leather ropes to connect gambling. (10)
Our enemies should be shaken by the hatred done by us and run away in fear of mind, eye and heart. (2)
O Sun God! You get that path quickly with the help of a fast-moving horse. You do not allow your mind to go around, because of this, you get the share of nectar food regularly. (15)
The host who performs yajna, gives a havya for the gods, squeezes the somras and cooks the purodash, speaks the mantras of Indra again and again. 
 Agni resides in the excellent paradise. He is as powerful as Indra. They complete the best yajna work on Mother Earth. They provide heavenly happiness. 
Indra, who sings hiranyavarnas, is our king. Oh, God! Indra don't do our violence. 
 We have prepared somers from the milk of the stunning cow. Such somersa indra likes very much by nature. You drink this someras and get cool, be happy. Please pay special attention to our prayers. 
 O Indra! You are the swami of horses and the glorious. Please be happy to drink somers. You plough your beautiful horses in the chariot. Please destroy our enemies. O Indra! You also make us crazy and effective. 
The kranti-pragya wale and the bright-hearted Soma drips in the words by permeating indra near him. 
O Savita Dev! Or shaving men! When you are a hair-cutting barber and run a razor with graceful sharpness, cut the hair of the head and beard, then make the face of this child bright while being tonsured and do not steal his age. (17)
What is the light like the sun? Which is the same pond as the sea? Who is more years older than Goddess Earth? There is no quantity (magnitude) of which? (47)
This is the earth! You are watery, animal shelters, vast, famous as many works, water-tapping, beautiful, possessed by varuna, the regulator of all, possessed by varuna, separate, continuous and very powerful. 
 O agni! May our intellects inspire you. Like inspiring the horse in the war, we inspire you, so that we can win all the glory in the battle of life. 
 O Mon! You are pure and energetic. Somers, refined by hosts, dissolves very quickly in water. You are sanctified to the gods. Cow's milk is added to someras only for devas. You are revered in the holy kalash 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are situated in the soul and the man is your radiance. We demonstrate our might in the soul and remove it from the soul. Let the one who hates us or the one we hate be destroyed. Give up life from him. (35)
The misdeeds, sins and defiles we have committed, O branches on all sides, that is, the tree of chirchita! Through you we remove him. (2)
O terrible, more intelligent and dynamic Maruto! You are born of the fast rudras. You have become powerful by speed and force. Everyone who sees the sun in your journey is afraid. 
God created the sun and the moon according to the past. He then created Huloc, Earth and Space. 
They drink someras in som characters named Indra Trikdruk and get satisfaction from the mixture of barley etc. Indra takes over the Someras prepared by Vishnu, because that Someras gives him strength and is consistent in them. (1)
The Brahmin's cow becomes as mahadev's armament while making the word of hooves. (8)
Aditi Devi is mahamahimashalini, mata, suvraton wali, immortal, never going to grow old, happy and moral. We call upon them to protect ourselves. (5)
He walked towards all the hinterlands. (24)
The sages call agni through mantras. In war, the man interrupted by the enemies call upon agni to gain victory. Birds flying in the sky praise the agni. They are surrounded by thousands of cows. 
For those who see me everywhere and see all things in me, I am never lost, nor are they ever lost to me.
O radiant and doomed mon! Kill all the enemies and monsters while filtering as you stream. 
O Lord Indra! Stota calls you to your defense. O Indra who protects many! You became the protector of our abundant wealth. If anyone as powerful as you is our violent, stop him. 
The hosts know the agni that is attracted by many people, who holds everyone, tastes the food well and gives residence to the hosts. 
Established in God, having a firm understanding of divine knowledge and not hampered by delusion, they neither rejoice in getting something pleasant nor grieve on experiencing the unpleasant.
O hundred sages! Praise the eternal young, rain-fed and holy Maruts with the most innovative ways in the same beautiful way that the farmer praises his oxen. 
Don't let this sword with wings hit us. It sits in a place with wide agni installation. May our human beings and cows be well-being and let this Kapotdev not do our violence. 
 Someras is happy, flows through many streams, is a power enhancer and is the swami of all wealth. The learned host squeezes someras. 
O God wife who allows all the deeds! Please impress me. O Goddess of resolve! You accept this greeting of mine. O God! Send Cupid towards this, so that he may remember me in sorrow. (2)
O leader and sacrificial lord Indra and Vayu! You have assents expressed by many, give them to us give to the givers. 
 O hosts! Som is as fast and praiseworthy as a horse. They are flowing like water and are going to reach anywhere quickly like rays of light. You squeeze the somers and add water to it. After that, irrigate it with go milk. 
 O agni! You are ajar 
The guest also eats all the sins of the one whose food he eats. (8)
 O agni! Our sama mantra singers 
With the words of Brahmagyan, the arrows should be sharp and fall on the unfriendly. Attack enemies. Exhume them. (45)
Sanjay said: On observing the Pandava army standing in military formation, King Duryodhan approached his teacher Dronacharya, and said the following words.
O agni! Please take us on supath and dhanmarg. You are a scholar. You fight with enemies. You are a scholar. Greetings to you again and again. Again and again, they exude the hymn for you. We request you to protect the yajna. (36)
O Indra of hundreds of deeds! You drink this somras that increases strength to protect us. (4)
The agni of invisible rays (rays) follows. It is not visible to humans. You have to eclipse the sun in the urn. You keep shining. The urn is your native place. The sun is bright. May He be enlightened in the gods, so let us be enlightened in men, (40)
Now hear my conclusion on the subject of renunciation, O tiger amongst men, for renunciation has been declared to be of three kinds.
O fire of money! I am performing yajna for your purpose for the fourth time with the seasons. You become the money giver to us. 
 Seekers worship Indra, respectable and worthy of praise. The strong and famous Indra gives them his protection. 
Just as our friend Surya illuminates the earth with its light, so we illuminate agni for the welfare of the people. You are properly generated. You are well known. We create you to destroy tuberculosis. (53)
Take me wherever saguna knows the nature of Brahman goes with the help of initiation and penance. Som provide me milk. May this sacrifice be well received by Som. (5)
O Mon! You are jealous. You should be immersed in the yajna for Indra Dev, Varun Dev and Marudgan. (17)
Just as the sun illuminates the heavenland and just as it connects the planet around it, the hosts connect all the means of yajna. (5)
 O Mon! You are an armamentary. Please give us spiritual and transcendental wealth and happiness. 
 O Mon! You are the swami of heaven, hundreds of streams, extraordinary, energetic, energetic and green aura. You go to Dronakalsh while making a sound. You are ready by mixing in water. You live in the urn like living in a friend's house. 
Prajapati install you on the back of the sea. Please be widespread in water. You expand like the earth. (17)
Juhu, constantly and with agni, comes to the agni with a soothing agni day and night. The glow of the agni comes to the agni, longing for the wealth of the stoetas. 
Someras' lover pitras have been called after the beloved substance is placed on top of the Kushas. Let them come there, listen to our praises, express their happiness by hearing the praises and protect us. 
Fire is the master of wealth and great good fortune. They give us wealth and good fortune. 
 May Indra bless us. May the omniscient Pusha bless us. May Garuda, who has non-violent weapons, and Jupiter, who possess knowledge, be kind to do us welfare. 
 O Mon! You are very bright and words and filtered in the yajna vessel. You sit in the forest and yagyashalas. 
The host who puts his graceful intellect in praise of you for the attainment of food and excellent wealth, Dhanswami Aryama etc. accept his praise and make a good place for his wide residence. 
The agni which is the lord of all the gods and is moving everywhere, is also the lord of the yagnas of the hosts in the morning. Hosts put their desired havi in the agni, so the chariots of the hosts are not stopped by the enemies. 
O Mon! Save us from condemnation and sin and be our benefactor by giving us graceful happiness. 
O agni! You are the master of the good of the house. By your grace, we should also become good housewives. By your grace, we should also become good housewives again and again. We are good householders. Let us perform yajna karma for a hundred years. We follow discipline consistent with the orbit of the Sun. (27)
O mustard seeds eaten for recovery and mustard stems that are not eaten! Your juice i.e. oil is capable of preventing diseases. O mustard! We eat with mantras full of 'Tera Karambha' (greens). (1)
These ekvrit i.e. the knower of Brahman is not called second, third fourth. (2)
O agni! Growing up in the yagna, why do you speak of our sin to indra, the mighty, the giver of good fruit and the aschinikumaras who have gone all over the world, to destroy the air, the earth and sinners? 
O Lord.o! You are pleased with this yajna of ours and do the praises of the sons and grandsons, riches and virtues. Give us such a beautiful grain that we can eat and become superior to other people. 
We have buried the rich in the earth while eating food. Knowing the agni in holy places, Vishwakarma should make our yagna a success. Those who do not perform havana or perform faulty yajna, mourn the success of my yajna. (1)
Among the gods, the pure, the holy, the astonishing, the stunning and the sacrificial narasans comes from the fire heavens and irrigates our yajna with honey three times. 
O sing! You enter this house with your offspring. This man does not disappear the part of the gods. Vidhata and Savita produce you for another human being. (33)
The vitvithas, who are equipped with shobhan agni, have possessed our best substance, so we approach the shobhan agni and beg. 
The stotas who perform the ritual of yajna praise him by keeping an eye on som on the day of squeezing. 
O Indra! You are a killer and you have expanded the sky. You have ascended heaven by your power. 
The calm-minded Indra created the waters that are everywhere, meeting each other and pleasing the world. They purify the water-sweet som through agne, wind and sun, pleasing the whole world and applying it in their respective activities day and night. 
Ashwini Kumar is the god of gods. They are doctors of gods. He and Saraswati Devi established vashatkar (radiance) in Indra Dev and buddhi in the heart. Hold money for us. May the hosts who want to earn money please perform a welfare yajna for him. (53)
O soldiers! Move towards the battlefield and win over the enemies by the grace of the gods. May your arms, which hold sharp-edged weapons, be powerful and destroy the powerless and powerless enemies. (7)
This is for the havya krantidarshi and the self-absorbed Aditya. They defeat all beings by their importance. The stunning Varuna pleases the host. I beg for more kirti than Varun. 
O agni! Just as our fathers got rid of the flesh and found the world of rit, sanctified it, expanded knowledge, penetrated ignorance, we also found the divine world like them. (69)
The bearer of fruits and those of great agni, like a bull, pervade the earth and the sky. This undecaying and supremely revered agni god is situated to protect us. Agni step on the altar raised like a mountain top on the vast earth and agni's glowing flames touch the sky. 
May my Brahmanism prevail in destroying the defects that degenerate from the jati. My strength and my physical strength generated by the influence of the mantra should be unfathomable. The Kshatriya jati, to whom I am a priest, should be victorious and devoid of old age. (1)
The earth that Varaha was looking for the bodies of those who committed virtue and sin and also the enemy, that earth was found by those Varaha. (48)
O Indra! You, along with the host of yagna, found the cows hidden in the cave and got them out of there. The host of yagna are also able to penetrate firm place and move the object of one place to another. 
O Indra! These sacrifices give ghee and milk to complete the yajna. 
 O Mon! Hymns are sung for you every day. Please connect human beings. You are the owner of the forest. Please accept our innermost praises. 
Hey Ritvijo! Speak more delicious hymns than ghee and honey to the bright and radiant Indra who does not oppose praise, who does not oppose praise. 
 O agni! You are going to sanctify. You invoke the gods for the welfare of the host. Accept havi to convey havi to the gods. Please make the yajna a success. 
The enemy people cannot subdue him even by maya, who gives agni to him by the evil-giving rituals. 
Wearing the havan given to the Indradi devas by the hosts, Agni goes to the yagna from all around like a man sitting in the chariot three times a day. 
 O Indra! Just as the father nurtures sons, so you nurture us. You give us the best fruits of yajna. Give you divine light to us creatures. We and many people keep calling on you for help. 
It is savita dev to make us immortal, get more quantity of gods in yagyas and give us anti-death force. May Savita Dev inspire us to sing both types of Rathantar Sama as a means of Shobhan praise. (3)
O descendant of Bharat, the dualities of desire and aversion arise from illusion. O conqueror of enemies, all living beings in the material realm are from birth deluded by these.
May the Sun God produce food and provide skill in the village of our residence and in its four directions. May our friend Indra give us protection and the king's anger should leave us and go away from us. (2)
Sometimes goodness (sattva) prevails over passion (rajas) and ignorance (tamas), O scion of Bharat. Sometimes passion (rajas) dominates goodness (sattva) and ignorance (tamas), and at other times ignorance (tamas) overcomes goodness (sattva) and passion (rajas).
O leader Ashwinikumaro! By the means of which you saved the tri-member who wanted to get money, save us to get food. 
O sin god born out of marrying before the elder brother! You leave parivitti, that is, the one who married before the elder brother, enter the agni, the sun, etc., the chamas or the smoke generated by the agni or into the clouds created by it or you join the fog. O sin god! You enter the waters of the rivers and move in various ways. (2)
O best of Brahmins, hear too about the principal generals on our side, who are especially qualified to lead. These I now recount unto you.
O the wise and the soothing mon! Join you all together and rain down from heaven for the welfare and philosophy of all. 
About Indra, Ritwij says that he alone is going to share wealth and overcome adversities. It is also heard that Indra has many mutually available defences. By the grace of Indra, may we get dear things of good. 
Just as Somlata is considered to be the best among all vines and flora for the use of Purodash, in the same way, I should become the best among my gotra people. (3)
We have taken thousands of garments from kings called Dhruva and Purusanti. The devotees and the devamadkari som walks away from sin. 
Salutations to Rudra Dev in the form of the assembly. Salutations to Chairman Rudra Dev. Salutations to Ashwapati Rudra Dev. Salutations to Nirogpati Rudra Dev. Salutations to Rudra Dev, who helped in the war. Salutations to the enemy guard Rudra Dev. (24)
We install Prajapati Dev near water. May they bless us with this water and make us holy. (6)
O leader Ashvinikumaro! You got rid of the sage Vandan hidden in a well like secret money. This work of yours is worth wanting, selective and praiseworthy. 
Strange color hair is related to a diagonally lined and strange pointed desert. Halkifulki red white wool (sheep) belong to Saraswati Devi. Spleen (patients) are related to tvashta dev with small and red eared ears. Indra with black neck, white armpit, red thighs is related to Dev. Related to Agni Dev. Black, small and large spot animals belong to Usha Devi. (4)
Just as a horse without rope, without a chariot and without a bond achieves its goal in battle, so the deep so the lampstanded som made in the yajna quickly goes towards Dronakalash. Oh, God! Come to us to drink the mon who comes to Dronakalash. 
Just as a chariot tied to ropes moves with its wheels, etc., on the other hand, so the fire goes into the sky with its flames. They burn the wood to make their passages black. The birds run away from the speed of fire in the same way as people run away in fear of the heroic. 
O Indra and Agni! Give you great and immortal wealth with the same strength as the sun in the sky for ashwamedha, which gives countless wealth to the priests. 
Heaven and earth come to protect us. All gods come to protect us. Parents come to protect us. We should get nectar in the form of Som Rasa. Those who win the war should be brave and powerful. Please get the food part of Jupiter dev with a holy mind. (19)
Somras, who knows the route, shows the destination and goes to the yagna sthal to the seatable place of the gods. 
Indra's wealth is great and fame is vast. Indra havyadata covers all the money to give to the host. 
The Deserts are the overswamis of the mountains. May they protect me in this Vedokta Paurohitya karma, in prestige, in resolve, in Devahuvana karma and in karma as a blessing. (6)
O Yama! Come here with the ancestors associated with the yajna named Angira and be satisfied. I call not only you, but also your father Surya, so that he can sit on the seat of this Kush and take havi. I call you like this. (59)
In a state where a Brahmin's wife is stopped by unconscious, men with huge heads are not born in that state. (13)
Everyone prays to Indra for the fulfillment of their work. We invoke the revered Indra in order. By the grace of Indra, let us be endowed with two-legged servants and four-legged animals. Enemies who obstruct the fruits of our mind should not come in front of us. O Indra! Destroy the enemy armies spread all over the place. (2)
You have been eclipsed in the urn for this agni. We accept you from Gayatri verses for Indra Dev. We receive you from the verse Trishtup. We accept you for all gods. We receive you from jagati verses for all gods. We praise you in the verse Anushtupp. (47)
May the light of which appears in the form of welfare destroying the enemies, may it give us the food worth everyone's choice, beautiful and soothing. 
O Indra! Of the wealth you are god, the more we should be masters. O Indra, who gives money! I will protect the stotha from money and will not give money for sin. 
O Indra! Come near to Our praises knowing you. Your horses are attached in the chariot right in front of us. O Indra who pleases everyone! Though you are called by all people, you must hear Our call. 
 O Indra! You are a drinker and follow the truth. You have your power in both the sky and the earth. You are the husband of paradise. You are going to increase those who do Somyagya. 
God is the holder of heaven. They adorn the earth with their brilliance. They are the holders of gods on earth and endowed with their divine penance and passion. May they bless us with divine voice and age. (16)
 O Indra! You do the stigmatization. You live on the giri 
Both the gods are the first venerable, chariot bale with charioteer and the best varna bale. You go looking at all bhuvans. You inspire the hosts to do their favorite deeds. You publish directions and directions. (7)
O lord of all, the wind! Who gives you the best sacrifice and O sompankarta air! What gives you the Holy Somras, you make it famous among all men. He becomes famous everywhere and becomes the object of money. 
O goddess of the night! You should say to the charioteer who squeezes somers that my love for his daughter has not diminished. 
 O sun! Your fame is great. You are especially great in the gods. You are the leader of the tam destroyer, the gods. Your light is immortal and omnipresent. 
O Anjan Mani born on Mount Trikkud! You are located to protect men, cows, horses and mares. (2)
Foods that are overcooked, stale, putrid, polluted, and impure are dear to persons in the mode of ignorance.
The priest performs yajna for Indra Dev from Samidha. Yajna is the navel of earth and space. Samidha is shining in heaven. Indra Dev is energetic and victorious. The host is requested to kindly perform yagna for them. They are requested to please accept havi. (1)
O agni! The wealth of enemies desire to go before each other to protect your stoes. By committing the violence of the enemies, your stotas want to defeat the yajnaless through yajnas. 
The Guru should say to his disciple thus- "O Devdatta! If you consume this odan with the help of cosmic feet, then you will become bahuchari i.e. meaningless very walking.  It has not been done from the front, nor by the spirit. I have consumed this with the help of the steps of Aschinikumars. I have delivered it where it had to go. This odan is full of all organs, with all joints and with a whole body. From this position, the one who consumes that odan is full of all organs, with all joints and full body. He is situated in the virtuous worlds like heaven etc. (15)
O men! You press your death with stone. I give you stone-like armor. Don't get him any other. May you live for a hundred years. (23)
O aschinikumaro! You made the sage the old age and the bright bud again young. You had pulled out a sage named Vandan from the well and made the lame Vishwapala walkable by putting an iron foot. 
This stotao! Praise the agni that is infested in all of you yajnas again and again with hymns. We repeatedly admire the mortal, the beloved agni like the JataVeda and the friend. 
O aschinikumaro! The sage Vishwakaya, the son of Krishna, prayed to you with a desire to protect him; just as a lost animal should show it to its master, so you showed his lost son Vishnuyu. 
O bright and efficient agni! You save us from the west, east, south and north directions by your skills. O unseasonal and clean agni! I'm your friend. You don't give me a little more death. 
O Jupiter born of the yajna! Give us the strange riches of bright and radiant adorned in the sacrificial acts, revered, illuminated and enlightened by the best of people. 
O you friends! When will we get the hymns to suit the importance of friends, Aryama and Varuna? 
All the gods were going to the wedding of The Moon and his beautiful wife Vena, when they found out that there were three wheels in the chariot carrying sweet food. There are pillars to resort to on top of that chariot. O Ashwinikumaro! By this type of chariot you come three times a day and also come three times at night. 
 O Indra! The one who makes you his friend becomes very beautiful. He gets very horse-ed. He becomes very charioted. He becomes very cowy. He becomes very rich, rich. He always goes to the meeting dressed in good clothes and ornaments. 
O Indra! You are going to give a lot of money in an instant to the eulogist and somabishing host. 
O agni! May your stos receive all the grain, protected by you and desiring food, defeating the invading enemies and killing them. 
Striving yogis too are able to realize the soul enshrined in the body. However, those whose minds are not purified cannot cognize it, even though they strive to do so.
This vast earth is for the maruts, the wide heaven is also for the dynamic maruts. The path of the sky is wide for the maruts to walk and the clouds make it rain quickly for the maruts. 
 Who can know Indra and his age? They are going to destroy the city of enemies with their own energy. They remain intoxicated and have a protective shield. 
O Sahadevi in a thousand places! Cut off the hair and necks of our enemies and destroy them. Return the act that interests our enemies to those who created it. (4)
O Indra! With what wisdom do you make your dependents successful? You are of great fame, so at the time of true time, complete this yajna with the increase of food. (4)
But an undisciplined person, who has not controlled the mind and senses, can neither have a resolute intellect nor steady contemplation on God. For one who never unites the mind with God there is no peace; and how can one who lacks peace be happy?
These are the waters of heaven. These waters are enjoyable. These are the waters of heaven. These are the ones that provide brilliance. These are the waters of heaven. These are the best habitat providers. These are the waters of heaven. These are the holders. These are the waters of heaven. They are nutritious like mother. We install these waters with respect to the host. (7)
Fire has been ignited with samidha. Ashwini Dev has been made deep. Saraswati Devi harnesses the bright Mahan Soma for them like milking cows. (55)
 O Indra! O agni! We hosts worship both of you gods. You both drink somers. 
O hosts! We invoke Indra to protect you. Indra, who first gave us money in the form of cow etc., is able to give the desired results. We praise the same Indra. (3)
With the help of agni and Indra, with the help of which the ancestors have subdued heaven, the agni and Indra who have pervaded all the worlds with their glory and who especially see the fruits of the deeds of their worshipers, those who give them the desired fruit, those who wear thunderbolts in their hands and I call Vritra Hanta Agni and Indra to win. (2)
O agni! You had shown it by being kind to Manu that by which deeds one gets heaven. You have given a fruitful fruit to your servant Pururava. Both woods are your parents. You arise from their friction. The ritwijs take you first to the east part of the altar, then to the west part. 
O Indra! By your grace, may our army of elephants, horses and chariots rejoice in the war. The shouts of our victories raised the ears of the enemies deaf. Spread the slogans that are separated from everyone and known by all. Indra, the eldest of whom is, should bring his army to help us in such a desert war. (6)
I crush the ribs and ends of three-headed, three-shaped, mottled and white-colored worms with the power of the mantra. (9)
O puruva! You used to be shaken by the male senses three times a day. I didn't have a competition with a saut. I used to come to your bedroom every day. O brave king! You used to make my body happy." 
Sacrifice that is performed according to the scriptural injunctions without expectation of rewards, with the firm conviction of the mind that it is a matter of duty is of the nature of goodness.
O agni that carries a curse to the gods and is ignited! You've been illuminated. You come to this yagna to give happiness with adityas, vasu.s and rudras. 
 O Indra! You are as full as the sea and hold the world. You are the master of satpati, shaktipati and divine powers. We worship you with speech. 
Hey Mon! Bring us the rain that is born in the world, the moving, the food-giving, the giving of pleasure, and the quick-giving. You come here, looking for the winds as beautiful as children, friendly and related to the earth. 
Indra has fixed the boundary of the rivers by the thunderbolt, so due to the force of Indra, the Ganga etc. streams are adorned in their respective places. Indra had made himself a place of residence for the sage Turviti without delay, giving fruit to the havyadata host by making himself a splendor. 
O earth! Both of you are blessed and have the same mind. I praise you. You are both infinite plan extensions. You two dwelling gods become the best places of human beings or wealth. You both redeem us from sin. (1)
They appeared on the yajnavedi to give money to rudradeva stothas and to treat the enemies and gave them the enemy-destroying weapons. Just as the clouds rain water, so did the fast-moving and prolific Rudra show his power all around. 
 O Indra! You have specially made doors 
The seers of all, those who are green and wearing all, they go to Dashapavitra first. Later, the words fall into the dronakalash. 
O Manu! I have become your yajna karma karyakarta. Come near to me and walk before me and walk towards the enemies. O tolerable and all-fruitful! O wise friend! Be in front of us. We will both destroy our enemies. You let us know your brothers. (6)
We praise those Saptarishis, jal goddesses and Prajapati. We praise such ancestors, among whom Yamraj is superior. Let them free us from sin. (11)
Oh my friend and Varun! When our chariot moves from our abode to another place like food-seeking, joyful and forest-dwelling birds, you, along with the Adityas, Rudras and Vasus, protect that chariot. 
O Indra of the Great Wealth! Just as you fulfilled the desire of the cow, horse and chariot in our minds earlier, we still have to give it. 
O the conqueror Indra! Come before us from a nearby or distant place and accept these praises. 
O agni! I am the best psalm among those psalms and my wise sons etc. are also among the psalms, so you destroy our sin. (3)
Tell us about the God in whom twelve Adityas, eleventh Rudra and eight Vasus are included. (22)
I call this milch cow. The harnessable gwala milks him. Accept the sun to the best part of our somras. This will increase their speed. That's why I call them. 
O o o ladies! When we dig you up for the treatment of the disease, then by your grace, get rid of mining defects. Take steps, quadrupeds and all our people should be free from disease by your grace. (95)
Hey Mon! The juice that drips from you, the part of yours, which is located on top of the stones that squeeze the juice from the priest's hand, and the part that is placed on top of the dashapavittra, we do havan salutations to all of them with all our heart. 
O agni! Meritorious aware and enlightened hymns ignite you well, those who carry the voice, churning, born by force and without death. 
Who made the brain, frontal and jaw joints and skulls of it? Which god is that? Who is the God who went to heaven by connecting the bones of a man's chin? (8)
O Indra Dev! The hosts who praise you in gayatri verses. You are the guardian of them. Those who worship Indra Dev in trishtubh verses. Indra Dev is also going to protect them. O Ashwini Dev! We access both of you to heaven and earthland. We wish you health. We want to bring Indra Dev and both Ashwini Kumars from space. Please both of you shower nectar and energy. Basus should perform the yajna work properly. They should be pleased to perform yajna properly to get good rain from the rays of the sun. (6)
O Haricnica! What do you wish? (4)
O sages of Angiragotra! Aditya, Vasu and Rudra all have mercy on you. You accept this money. This wealth is vast, large, wide and endowed with sovereignty. (9)
 O Mon! You are the swami of food, the light, praise and the drink of the gods. You give us fame and strength. You fill the dronakalash. 
O Gods! You protect our welfare and our sacrifice. Come close to us today. Let us fill the hearts of the scared hosts with love. You protect us from bad deeds and bad people. (51)
 O agni! You give food and strength to those you engage in war and protect them from death. 
They give money to the host who is full of desire, who does acts like a bull, who kills demons and is cleansed. 
 O agni! You are great. From you we want greatness. Please provide abundant godhan to us cow-seekers. 
Human beings who wear the heart praise the most eternal agni for the work of the angel. O agni! You take the devas with the help of the horses and beautiful chariots and sit in this yajna as you would. 
I should cross death with the odan that Prajapati named Hiranyagarbha, born first from Parabrahma, had cooked for Brahman through penance and which is going to bind the worlds like the earth etc. (1)
O daughter of heaven Usha! Sing and give us wealth with the sun's rays and the bright flames of agni. O Shobhan-born Usha! People praise you for getting the horse. 
 Som is extremely enjoyable. They play like waves of water. Someras is filtered by making a edge in the urn with a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
O aschinikumaro! Your old being serves you with sweet somras for your happiness. Along with praise by the Ritvijas, the kushas have been placed on the havya. Come to us with god and food. 
The stagnant somas are sewn like honey to serve the distant and adjacent devas and Indra. 
Hey Varun! We end your anger by greetings and offering havans in the yagnas. O wise Varuna who destroys evil! Dwell in this yagna for our welfare and reduce our sins. 
Humans call Indra in war. The hosts make their bodies weak by tapasya and appoint Indra as their protector. The host and the praiseor together resort to the same giver Indra to get a son and grandson. 
The rays of the agni with bright, great and glorious radiance are spoken by words. Fire pervades heaven through its most admirable, the most glorious, the playful and the greater brightnesses. 
 Hey Yazko! Indra is the destroyer of many enemies. Indra is described in all praises. You call on them for your protection. 
The army of our enemies should be dead and with countless corpses when the weapon resources are confronted in the war by getting our army. (25)
Hey friend and Varun! Who knows your look? Rays with no feet come into this world before beings with feet. The earth bears the weight of them and obeys the one who speaks the truth. This earth destroys the one who lies. (23)
The learned people know the form of the intoxicating mon. Baj rupi somrup had brought the grain from far away. The well-growing, devabhilashis, on all sides, massage the dynamic and praiseworthy mons into the ritwiz water. 
O Indra and Vishnu! I offer you hymns and hymns. At the end of this uqth you consume the yajna. Give us both the money that you take us across on the path without disturbance. 
The host who praises agni through mantras, the lord of the night, Agni, gives him wealth. O omniscient agni! You follow the animal group knowing about the birth of gods and human beings. 
 O Indra! You kill the one who attacks us with your own weapons. Inspire our intellect. You donate money to us. It is our heartfelt wish that the bow of our enemies should be broken. 
For us, the sky should be honey, the space should be honey, the medicines should be honey and the field man should also be honey. We should attain amrittva and follow it. (8)
 We invite Indra with the means to protect and follow the people. Indra is highly praised. 
O Indra and Agni! From the heavenly place which is going to illuminate our karma fruits, go for the sake of this yajna and give us happiness. 
Jupiter met his brilliant, truthful and wealth-giving helpers and shattered the demon who stopped the cows. Jupiter, the lord of the hymns, pulled out the godhan with the water-showerers, the drawers of water and the bright arrival maruts. 
The special pleasures, joys, greater happiness and substances that give them, the gods in heaven and heaven , all of which originated from Brahman in the form of sacrifices. (26)
 O Indra! Your force is beginning to appear. You are spreading paradise and earth like leather. 
O ashwinikumaro who showers money! Climb on to the chariot, with gold reins, like a coat of arms and give us a great grain. 
O Indra! May the someras that energizes you enter your body and make you satisfied. (5)
O Usha Devi! The bad self that we are afraid of, that bad self-love will end. (2)
Apart from the God who is the presiding deity of the world with life, the Supreme Soul is the presiding deity of the world with water, the God who is glorified, the God from whom the glorious world was born, the God who is the deva of two steps and four steps, for which God should we decide for whom. (3)
Lakes that are not waterproof; Those who are rich, but not generous; Girls who are not eligible for household dharma, it is according to kalpa texts. (8)
O Indra Dev! You are like our friend. You make hundreds of efforts to protect us people. (41)
 O agni! Please orient Sompan and the gods towards us. 
When the wars begin, when this king wears armor, its appearance looks like a cloud. O King! You get victory from the body without being pierced by enemies. May this glory of armor protect you. 
O Indra! Those who do not perform yajna themselves or oppose those who perform yajna have fled facing back. O Indra! You are the lord of the horses named Hari, the one who does not turn your backs in the war and are furious. You have driven away those who do not perform yajna from heaven, heaven and earth. 
 Worshippers are as superior as Ushna. They present the biographies of the gods well. Soma is sacred, illuminated and nourishing. You go to Dronakalsh while doing words while being refined. 
O agni that gives the abode! Do not let anyone do any violence to those psalms who serve you through praises and pleasant pursuits. The hymn who gives the greeting also praises you for the messengers of the havan etc. 
Tell me about the God whose head is The Vaishvanar Agni and the Eyes Are Angiras, whose organs become demons, whose eyes are Who is He? (18)
O Ashwinikumaro! By your grace I have become a young woman and the husband who wished me has come. After the rain you have done, the trees have grown up. Just as the rivers flowing down go towards the ocean, so the plants are moving towards them. May this husband attain a youth which no one can destroy. 
O Indra and Agni! You listen to the call of the host who squeezes the somras, me shyavash and my ritwiz attri to drink the somras. 
O Indra! You give us the glory that grows after the peace of diseases. Give us the strength to defeat great and enemies, protect us by making us rich, follow the scholars and give us wealth, beautiful children and food. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Protect us for the good sense of doing good deeds like Agnihotra etc. O God of the vast journey! Protect us without giving you frenzy. O God like the Father! Drive away the goddess of sin who attacks like a dog from us. (3)
O Indra with big hands! You give us the praise-worthy, bizarre and acceptable wealth to hold in your right hand. 
Those who are eleven in Dev Dyulok named Aditya, they should consume Havi while performing this havan. (11)
Oh, King! May King Varuna, God Jupiter, Indra and Agni hold your kingdom as dhruva. 
I am the beginning “A” amongst all letters; I am the dual word in grammatical compounds. I am the endless Time, and amongst creators I am Brahma.
Hota performed a yagna for Indra Dev. Aditi Devi streamed them in the womb. They are aged. Hota praises Indra Dev in the hot verse. They give them strength with the power of the senses. They are the lights of the cow (rays that conduct the yagya process). The hosts dedicate sacrifices to them. May they receive our blessings with Prayaj Dev. (25)
Salutations to those who bass in the shining paradise, who dwell in the rays of the sun, those who have a house within the water. (8)
The bull, which is the husband of non-violence cows, drives away the demons with its horns and poverty from the eyes. He listens to welfare things with his ears. (17)
O agni! You are a scholar. You are the one who delivers the sacrifices to the gods. You are worshiped in yajna, very radiant and holy. Please varun dev on us. Please destroy all our malice. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! The horses of your chariot that go to the three realms bring you to the place of judgment. At that time the names of your golden chariot fulfill your wish. Meet us in the morning while drinking somras. 
O agni! Just as a rider who wants to climb a horse cleans the back of a horse, in the same way gautama gotrotpan we help you with beautiful hymns, the lord of wealth, the protector of all, the protectors of all, the food of yajna, and the food of yajna. O agni that receives wealth by wisdom! To arrive early tomorrow morning. 
The work of all these people who build the pillar, the builders of the iron and wooden spins that make them sister- the work of all these people should serve the interest of our yajna. (29)
Oh my friend and Varun! You both accept our sacrifices for your will fulfillment. You both sit on the cushions to drink somras. 
By the grace of the gods, today we should be full of Brahmins, fathers, pitamahs, sages and arshgans. You should wear dakshina well. Devgan is our son. Please provide the best results to the best donor priests. (46)
The muni-sons of Vatarshan wear yellow-coloured cover. The gods attained divinity and began to move at the speed of the wind. 
O powerful friend and Varuna! I tell you a new praise like food. One of you, Varuna, is the master of all, undefeated by enemies and decisive of Dharmadharma and other friends listen to our praise and put the creatures in their work. 
They sit in their chariots to find the happiness of the wealthy Indra and come to our yajna, who quickly weakens the enemy's forces with their unlimited powers. 
The earth which satisfies the whole world through food and ghee, without which human beings cannot do anything, may that dyava earth cause happiness for me and free me from sin. (6)
O agni, the holy and holy one everywhere! Sage Gopavan made you a great annadata. You hear their call. 
Mon are generated to give property. Mons come out of the vines to give money. Som gives food and age to the stotas. The Stotagans have become immortal by acquiring property from Mon. Wars are successful when Som is born. 
O Indra! We go close to you for protection when the war starts. Indra, who is always young and defeats enemies and is very powerful, should come to protect us. O Indra! We consider you as our friend, so we wish you to protect us. (2)
This medicine created by Jupiter has been confirmed by all the gods. We combine this medicine with the juice that is entered in the cows. (58)
People who want to perform yajna bring yagya material like water, someras, milk and ghee etc. like their mothers and sisters. (1)
O Aghnya! Cut off the flesh of your abductor and dry his veins. (8)
Pusha Devta conquered all the five directions with five letters, in the same way we also got bijay, Savita Dev won six seasons with six letters, so we also won. The Marudganas conquered seven villages and animals with seven letters. Brihaspati Dev conquered Gayatri with eight letters, in the same way we also won. (32)
O famous Indra! You must quickly subdue those without sacrificial work. You alone have given sons, vasadis, to the yajnakartas. Whether you have that power in you now or not. From time to time you manifest the power. 
 O agni! We ignite you with samidhas. With more of our archana, you get an increase from the hikes. 
The great Varuna controls these enemies and watches all their unjust people closely. Varuna knows all the immovable and movable things of the world. Due to transcendental knowledge, devas know all the elements stable and mortal. (1)
The seven sages manifested divine creation with praises, with verses, with proof. These sages followed the former sages. These dhir rishis took them to the desired destination just as the reins carry horses to their favored destination. (49)
O Maruto! We don't stay outside the limits of your donations. O Chariotemer Maruto! Don't leave us behind while distributing money and make us masters of the desired wealth. This wish-filled Maruto! You must make us partakers of your wealth of glorious origin, 
May the day be good for us. We pray wisely. May the night be good for us. We pray earnestly. May Indra Dev be good to us. May Indra Dev be pleased to protect us. May agni be beneficial to us. Please protect us. May Indra Dev be good to us. Please accept our wish. May Varun Dev be kind to us and please accept our wish. May Indra Dev be good for us and remove diseases. May Pusha Dev be good for us and remove diseases. (11)
If the Brahmin's cow is raised, it provides mourning while lifting it and after lifting it becomes like snake venom for the lifter. It destroys the consciousness of the stealer with its smell. (7)
Oh my friend and Varun! When it comes out, the sun eclipses the somras. He assumes we have the medicine of the sick. 
O Indra! For the winged pigeon, you should provide cooked yellow, walnuts and more water. (12)
O agni! This arani made from wood produced in the quiver is your place of origin. Arising out of it, you get adorned. Knowing this, sit in the arny and increase our praises. 
Please climb in the south direction. Please protect you from the wealth of Trishtupp. Please protect you from the wealth of brihatsam. Please protect you from Panchdash Stom Dhan. Please protect you from the wealth of summer and virility. (11)
This sommeras is definitely delicious, this sommeras has melody properties. It definitely feels tart to drink sommeras. This som tastes great. No one can tolerate Indra in the struggle, who wants to drink it. This means that no one can stand in front of Indra in the struggle. (48)
The yajna, which gives the best results for humans, has been completed for Indra, in the first, second and third savan. The Ritvijas have created the yajna as the womb of the earth. The workman and the conqueror get along with the yajna devas. 
The praises, praise the many-streamed, the one who can not be emasculated, the radiant and the heaven assuming Som. 
The abandoned tinka in the vya is part of the demons. That's why this abandoned grass! We turn you away. You are a demonic instinct. You sit in the pit of collapse. You are a hindrance and a hindrance. We lead you into darkness. May heaven and earth be filled with the light given by the host. Please accept the agni given by the host. Swaha for agni. Swaha for Nabh Dev. He reached the highest sky. The wind goes all over the sky. (16)
I am beautiful hands and speech. My praises praise Indra Dev. These praises are helpful and mutually mixed in attaining heaven. These eulogies wishing for Indra are wrapped together in this way, just as women who wish for a son hug their husbands. Just as the son hugs the father etc. to protect himself, in the same way, my praises are wrapped with Indra. (1)
When the mons of kranta karma are cleansed by the fingers, only then do they want to give the meritorious hymn a delightful sum of money from the desireful Indra. 
The bright sun is rising, like the eyes of friends and Varuna, equal to all human beings, with good fortune, and like the eyes of Varuna. They wrap up the darkness like leather. 
O boy! The garment that is covering your upper part and which you are wearing below the waist, these two types of clothes should be beneficial and pleasant for your body. I make this cloth so that it does not look harsh to touch. (16)
O Indra! Make my father's hairless shisha, the farm and the places under my abdomen fertile. 
When Surya went to her husband, knowledge became Anjan, her pillow and eyes became Anjan. The sky and the earth were his treasures. (6)
May our mind, which is enlightened, conscious, patient and elixir in all beings, without which no work is done, become full of welfare resolutions. (3)
O enemie destroyer Indra! By your grace, both enemies and friends call us with beautiful wealth. Let us live life with the happiness obtained by the grace of Indra. 
There are two opposite girls of the sun night and day. One of them is beautified by stars and the other from the sun. May the night-day pair of people, who oppose each other, be happy to hear our praises. 
May Prajapati bless us with the directions of the earth on which violent animals made by the gods perform many types of sports, which holds the whole world in themselves. (43)
O agni! Give us the money with the help of which we win and kill the strong enemies and weapons throwers in the war. O agni that gives you the place of residence by wisdom! Increase us and complete our money-giving sacrifices. 
The agni that eats the samidhas and is irrigated with ghee, the old home completes the selection and the agni produced by power is very strange. 
O agni! Always give the sacrificial host as a means of many deeds to my host. O agni! May we have sons and grandsons, and may your fruitful wisdom be compatible with us. 
O Indra! You have been brilliant for the glory that you have won. You alone destroy your enemies. (10)
O air! Usha extends the same welfare garment as before, covering the houses with their rays in the distant sky. The rays of the ushas are new. Sing to complete your yajna only give nectar rained food. You made the rivers effective by filling the clouds in the bright sky. 
May the chants be sweet to us. May the sun be kind to us. Sing please be Madhavi (sweet) towards us. (29)
God, man and water, who do not achieve the end of Indra's force, have moved beyond the earth and the sky by their hostile force. Let them protect us with the help of the maruts. 
This praise of mine reached Indra and Varuna. My praise became the cause of protecting the son and grandson. Let us get the yajna by being shobhanaratna. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O agni killed by the Angiravanshi sages! The old sages praised you and the new ones are also. Give us the wealth that defeats great men. O agni of the gods! Give us the power to praise your psalms, that is, and enrich us in wars. 
O agni! You are pleased with the hymns and are ignited in the human world. O agni, lord of the sujat and the abominable food! The whole khuch from the havya always receives you. 
The bull's anus is part of Siniwali i.e. Amavasya and the skin is called the part of Surya, the wife of the Sun. Its feet are called part of the lift. Thus the sages conceived the bull. (14)
I know the deeds described in the Vedas of Vayu and Savita. O Vayu and Savita Dev! You both enter and protect the real and confluence creatures. You both were born to protect the world. You two redeem us from sin. (1)
Hey friend and Varun! Each of you performs particular deeds, the truthful, the meditative, the meritorious are praiseworthy and hostile, by the four astras, he destroys those who possess three weapons, and by the power of each of them the deities are already eliminated. 
Tvashta Dev is fast paced, unique and salvation giver. Indra Dev and Agni are confirmators. Bivariate verses, senses salvation cows please hold strength and age for us. (20)
Thereafter, conches, kettledrums, bugles, trumpets, and horns suddenly blared forth, and their combined sound was overwhelming.
I praise the great, many who perform yajna karma and the work-year-old Dadhikra Dev. O friend and Varun! Both of you wear Dadhikra Dev, who protects and lights like agni, for the welfare of human beings. 
O agni! Please take this yajna of ours towards the destination of the gods with stone, circumference, shruq (spoon), altar, kusha and richa. (63)
 O Mon! Your juice is very strong and sweet like Indra's thunderbolt. This juice should make a sound and enter the dronakalsh. The streams of Someras are sweet to make fruits sweet, rain water and make a sound like milch cows. 
O ladies! You are the best. All the trees are below you. Let him who harms us be inferior to us. 
O host! I have brought you a soothing and painful defense. I have instilled in you the welfare power. I'm going to cure your disease now. 
This havi is dedicated to the god, the presiding deity of space i.e. earth and sky. (4)
O agni! The host whose friendship you accept is enhanced by the defenses of your adorned sons. 
I pray in front of a medicine named Sahdevi, who has various forms, good fortune and gives life. Let him take the sword agnid towards us by our violent men away from us and our cows. (3)
 O agni! You are watered with somers. It is moving, desired and illuminating. That is prepared for you. You are dear to the glory Usha goddesses. You are adorned with objects at night. 
O very young agni! Those who prove the host with the desire for great glory and give ashwarup havya, save them from sin and follow them by a hundred cities of rakshasadhana. 
Therefore, O adorable Lord, bowing deeply and prostrating before you, I implore you for your grace. As a father tolerates his son, a friend forgives his friend, and a lover pardons the beloved, please forgive me for my offences.
O Vasuo! Who among you is the protector and who will remove the suffering? O indivisible earth, the sky! You protect us. O Indra and Brahma! Save us from you losers. Oh, God! Who among you donates money? 
O God of God who knows everything! Protect us from the agnipower of actions. May we be blessed by Agni, Soma, Varuna, pure strong friends, Vayu and Parjanya. (3)
 O Mon! Your juice should be intoxicating and go to Indra. Please be strong and reach the air. You are holy. Please make the host Ayushmann. 
O agni! You have conquered the human benefits and the wealth created on the mountain from the dasas and gave it to the Aryans. Be the losers and destroyers of your enemies like the knights and take on the invaders. 
 O agni! You appear with great light. They roar strong in heaven and earth. Lightning roars and water rise between clouds. 
O fathers! Please provide abundant nutrition for the child in the womb so that he can become heroic. (33)
The demons that hijack the life and the diseases that weaken the body pierce the place of ripening of the huge wound from below, this great medicine completely destroys it and eliminates diseases like diarrhea etc. from the root. (3)
O Indra, who worships the sun! You destroyed the vritra asura. The time when you are nanded is under you. (1)
O dream! Let your evil fruit be worn by our enemy and the enemy of the gods like a gold ornament on his body. Let the fruit of our nightmares move nine fists away from us. We send the evil effects of the nightmare towards our enemy. (5)
We praise both day and night and the sun moon. We praise all Adityas. Let them free us from sin. (5)
May our son of strength, with firm hands and with thousands of grains, serve the agni that he serves through the unskilled hymns, that agni defeats other agnis. 
O Indra! Just as a person desirous of food makes a cart, so we prepare a fewras for you in sufficient quantity. You know us well. We brighten you with our praises and ask for happiness. 
Dyava-Prithivi himself performed the rites of the decorated and wishful Indra to get faster. O Indra! You sit on the yajnavedi as the head of the same gods as you. Your mind is inclined to Somerasa. 
Violent and waist-slic tigers etc. rogue animals should not reach those cows. Those cows should not go near the meat cook and get a place without fear of the host. (4)
Where are the ancient ushas for whom the sages worked to make spoons? When brightly-tempered usha spreads light, they do not look new or old because they are alike. 
Just as the exploiter is easily called to milk the cows, in the same way, indra is invoked every time the opportunity to protect him. (1)
If you don't know, ask. (5)
Salutations to Vajra etc., the instruments of destruction of Indra, so that they may abandon us. Salutations to the weapons belonging to the king. Oh death! We salute you for saving us from the weapons meant to killing of the Vaishya's. (1)
The knowledge of even the most discerning gets covered by this perpetual enemy in the form of insatiable desire, which is never satisfied and burns like fire, O son of Kunti.
Salutations to Shambhu. Salutations to both gods. Salutations to Shankar. Salutations to Maya. Salutations to Shiva and God other than him. (41)
Agni Dev heats in heaven, is also in space and people with death dharma illuminate our agni. (20)
O Indra! A person who does not desire the gods and who sleeps to dream, let him destroy his nourishing wealth through his own movements. You send him to the land without work. 
O king! You should rule all the subjects by becoming mighty like a lion and become an invader like a tiger and obstruct all the enemies. You become the chief and friend of Indra and conquer all. Those who behave like your enemies, take away their enjoyment of their means of wealth. (7)
The enemy who desires sin in our slaughter form, Jupiter god should protect us in all four directions from him. Let them make us better than our food. (11)
O Vrithrahanta Indra! We will speak your praises slowly, without resentment and with devotion and reverence. 
Food seekers go to the place of agni with host hymns and find unhindered wealth by others. O agni! When you have a vision, they find joy in your praises and speak your sacrificial names. 
O glorious agni! You are the best friend of all the gods, the beautiful and the abode of all the properties of the yagnas. Let us be present in your most elaborate sacrificial house. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O Son of God! You both mix Goddess Saraswati with cow's milk and Somras with medicines. Offer that juice to Indra Dev. May they please accept this sacrifice well. (66)
We have made unique, great and pleasing praises through our mouths for the great, heroic, powerful, swift, especially praiseworthy, thunderous and advanced Indra. 
O Indra! May all the unstained enemies perish and let your praises begin. Who wants to kill us. You kill that enemy. May your charity give us wealth and let the cords of the bows of the enemies perish. 
O Deepta Usha Devta! Bring Indra, who is fierce for enemies and more worthy of praise, to our yagya with food. Bring indra whose water enriches food and who illuminates indra directions, bring him to our yagyashala. (3)
 O hosts! We worship Dadhikrava 
O God of Agni! Make those who hate us or those whom we hate sharp with your glory.
 Let us get god's interest. We get food and strength. We are centenarians. May we be happy. We got suvir 
 O Indra! You have installed The Sun, the son of Sage Shringavrish, on the axis. Please put your mind in the Kundpayi Yajna, in which someras is drunk from the kundis. 
Should I be steady with my body or with Varun? Shall I engage my mind in Varuna? Why would Varun accept my gesture without getting angry? When will I see the beautiful Varun from Shobhanman? 
O brilliant Ashwinikumaro! We call you, wishing for money like a person.  You come to our yajna. 
O Chandra Dev! Make those who hate us or those whom we hate deeply despise with the brightness of yours. (3)
O brahmachari! Come and attack the stone with your right foot. May your body be as strong as a stone. May all gods make your age a hundred years old. (4)
O Mon! You are protected from the deeds of great verses and from the laws of the shadow. You have a position with the word that comes from the stone of soma kootne. The terrestrial creatures could not consume you. (5)
The praise with which the gavaputra suhastya and the sages were adorned, i will desire food, i will be successful by praising you with the same praise as the chamber, 
Indra's best policies are great and many praises. Indra's rakshasadhan never ends. 
Indra and Vayu have prepared curd milled somras. That mon arrived like the saritas flowing down towards you. 
The somas who bring wealth, cows, grains and sobhangrihas are squeezed by the ritvijs. 
Just as the water of the river flows rapidly towards the lower point, similarly the streams of ghee cross the boundary and move forward. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You remain in your place because of the fasts that hold the world. The ritwijas are engaged in your yajnakarmas. You both sit on the cushions to drink somras. 
The sky and earth are frightened by the force of Indra. As soon as Indra appeared, he took the other gods into his defense. (1)
O yajnavardhanakar Ashwinikumaro! Drink extremely sweet somras. After this, you take the money in the chariot and come to the host. 
O Annaswamy Varuna! May this hymn made for you be in your mind. Let our region and yoga be auspicious. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare.  
The earth and the heavens hold on to the temple, which is praised by all men. Just as the water flows down, they are so dynamic, war-seeking, ready to cross the same directions as heroic, walking on chariots, and fast as the wind. 
For those whose minds are attached to the unmanifest, the path of realization is full of tribulations. Worship of the unmanifest is exceedingly difficult for embodied beings.
 O hosts! You give power to Indra. You worship them. He killed Krishnasur along with his pregnant women with the help of Rishishva. He is going to wear a thunderbolt in his right hand. They are present with the army of marudagans. They are powerful. The host wants their protection from them. We call upon them for host friendliness. 
O Rathjita i.e. a herb named Mash! Remove the smar i.e. Kamadeva related to the apsaras who conquer the world and create special detachment with your vehicle chariot. O God! Send that Cupid near this woman. This woman, who is alienated from me, is suffering from Cupid and is sad to remember me. (1)
O agni! Have you sinned in anger towards the gods? I don't know that, so I'm asking you. O green agni! You separate it from each joint in a place while wandering, not doing it, while eating wood, etc., in such a way that the cow is cut into pieces with a sword. 
We please the gods by performing yagna through havi containing cow's ghee. By the grace of those gods, we should get all the desired things and houses with many cows and live happily in them. (11)
The desert uprooted the well with his power. The mountains on the way were interrupted and then they broke them. The adorned maruts gave delightful wealth while playing the veena and drinking the somras and enjoying themselves. 
O Indra! Your son, child and the knower of truth with food and those who love you, sit in the house of the Creator praising you. (3)
O aschinikumaro! Your admirable ass were taken to your connected chariot first to the limit of the race, to the sun. The winning virgin came for friendship and said that I am your wife and made you your husband. 
O Pawman Mon! Your juice found in the water moves towards the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair in many ways. O very intoxicating Mon! You must be sanctified by the wise ritwijas and taste for Indra's drink. 
As the night passes, Indra shows his power. O Ashwinikumaro! You both come quickly to the days of squeezing the mon in the same way. Which of the following deeds is best among the deeds of both of you who have come from heaven, of divine quality and of good speed? 
O agni! Just as we inspire the horse of Ashwamedha with prayers, in the yajna, we touch the heart with welfare prayers. With the grace of Agin, the resolutions related to yajna are strengthened. (44)
It was! Praise the bright, the mighty, the strong, the man with the hands adorned with the thorns, the one who trembles all, the wise and the rich ones. Worship the happy, the unlimited splendor, the more wealthy and the leaders. 
Who separated cows from our nation? Wasn't there a protector with those cows? Let those perish, who take over our nation. Let the agni that knows our desire, bring our animals closer. 
O Indra! Drink somers from the Brahmin host. Drink somers according to the season. You and we have an unbreakable bond. 
Everywhere are his hands and feet, eyes, heads, and faces. His ears too are in all places, for he pervades everything in the universe.
Those, who see God as the Supreme soul equally present everywhere and in all living beings, do not degrade themselves by their mind. Thereby, they reach the supreme destination.
O agni! There would have been no one but you, the one who performs yajna and is not an elder. O agni, lord of the grain! In the future, no one will be the same as you. The ritwick of which you become guests. He destroys the enemies by performing yajna. 
O agni! You make the ignorant knowledgeable. You give a beautiful look to the aprup. You are born with Usha Devi. (37)
Hey Mon! The Stotas sit in all places, defeating your mind with their praises. When you become intoxicated, there are different kinds of desires in my mind, who are interested in money, so you are great. 
 O agni! You increase intelligence. You are the toiletries of the yajna. You are of huge size. We would accept Havi to invoke none other than you by one voice. 
Great agnis are oppressors and scrape the big ones. These gross and worms destroy everyone. (12)
O Mon, called and sifted by many! You enter dronakalash by becoming the beloved of the people who speak hymns in this yajna. 
O God! You are the eye of the sun. You are the eye of agni. Please climb the pupil of the eye. You are shining. Please be graceful here. (32)
O Indra Dev! You are great and have a thunderbolt in your hand. You're sixteen arts. Please give us happiness. Those who hate us, please destroy those sinners. For the happiness of Indra Dev, agni is taken in upyam. The book is your native place. We do your reputation there. (10)
O Indra! Let us be protected by you and become the masters of horses and destroy enemies with the same power as the tree. (18)
I have been told by Som that all medicines and agnis reside in water. Agni is the welfare of the whole world. (2)
The fierce, workable and inconsolable Indra to the enemies grows up to show valour and gets mixed with the hymns. Indra's cows are milch and are many in number. 
    O Ashwinikumaro! You are a gold chariot, enemy, wealthy, wealthy and a yagna lover. You come to our yajna and be distinguished. Please listen to our prayers. 
O Indra! You, as a knight, by innovative means of protection, open to us the gates of the goshalas in which cows live. 
May Indra grant us protection from all the four directions, all the four corners of the directions and from top to bottom. Indra is the conqueror of the enemies who hate us and the destroyer of hatred. (7)
Usha 
How was the spoon, which you skillfully divided into four parts? Hey Ritvijo! Squeeze the soma for the delight of the sages. O Lord.o! You drink the sweetest somras. 
O Indra! We call you. You come before us. This somras of ours is enough for your body to grow. O Sahartu Indra! Be happy to drink this dull somras and protect us from all sides in wars. 
O teacher! You pour a hand in the agni that knows the riches and the givings to feed the gods. Fire sitting on your altar. 
O leader Aschinikumaro! Our father, Atri, was grateful to the joy of extinguishing the agni and praised both of you. Through your hymns, they understood the agni that the asuras had set them to burn. 
This earth is the best among the three worlds on which we are located. Like the skin of the earth, I collect the medicines produced on the present land above. (1)
In order to achieve the goal of well, Agni, Mitra Dev, Barun Dev, Indra Dev, Savita Dev, Vanaspati Dev and other ghee drinking deities received the havi consumed by agni. Devgan was pleased with the yajna performed by the hosts. Devgan possessed fame, sense power, strength and might for the hosts. (58)
O Arjun, I am seated in the heart of all living entities. I am the beginning, middle, and end of all beings.
The one who says that your chest is as it is, opens the chest for himself. (7)
 O hosts! Let us praise Soma and other gods. Let us inspire Som with our praises with the desire to get a lot of money. Filter this somerus with a sieve made of sheep's hair. He was full of pots. 
O ghost! For you, the gods wore pitchers covered with poos and filled with ghee, those pitchers should be dripping ghee for you. (68)
The host shobhan, who wants to perform the desired yajna of the devas, finds a son with semen and receives the money with horse-fitting. The host who worships the gods in his will defeats the one who does not perform the yajna. 
O jataved agni! You take the will. By your grace, milk, ghee-giving cows, fast running horses and seven types of animals of different sizes like goats, sheep, donkeys, camels etc. in the village should love me. (6)
O Shur Indra! You protect us with the shuruta maruts. Protected by you, let us be able to destroy the enemy. The anointed substances you give surround the psalms in such a way that the servants surround their master. 
In all these creatures, there is only one God as father and son and as big and small, who is entered in the mind. He was born first of all. The same is located in the womb. (28)
Just as the water flows downwards according to nature, indra's assistant marudgana, pleased with somapan, went in front of vritra, the lord of the rain, fighting with indra. Just as a man named Tritiya had penetrated the peripheries, Indra became powerful from the Somras and separated the asura named Bal. 
O darbhamani! Cut off my enemies and those who gathered the army against me. Cut off everyone who has ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (8)
O senses! You make space in the body, because this body is your protector in its own subjects. You make your detailed topics right. This body is your spoon, that is, your means of enjoyment. This should not be destroyed. You strengthen this body. (4)
Both Ashwinikumar, Indra and Agni, Friend and Varuna, Akash and Prithvi, Brihaspati, Vayu, Marudgana, Brahma and Som Devta should raise this woman with children. (54)
 O Mon! You are a poet, beloved, strong and beautiful among the gods. You get refined and flow. 
O Fire and Mon! We know your virility from whom you snatched the cows from the pangs and killed Vritra, the son of Vritra, the son of Tvarsta, and found the sun to be of all good to everyone while walking in the sky. 
We praise the bright Varuna, the friend, Vishnu, the Bhaga, ansh and vivasvan i.e. the sun. Let them free us from sin. (2)
The pleasing songs wish for Som. The meritorious stota asks Mon by his praises. The milk of cows is purified by the som ritvijs mixed with milk and squeezed. The mantras spoken in the Trishtupana go to Som. 
Yami quote- Who knows the first day's orgasm! Who has seen him? Who will tell him? O Yama who decides salvation and bondage! What do you say about the place of friend and Varuna i.e. day and night? 
Remember Brihaspati Dev, the son of the Angiras, for giving Saraswati, the form of all the vaavas, to me. The male and female form, all the gods are under the control of Jupiter and the Jupiter by which all the gods are engaged in the works, that Jupiter Dev should come to give fruits to those who wish us. (4)
Water is like mother to those who wish for yajna. They are our benefactors. They are going by the waterway. They make the milk sweet. 
Hey Mon! Make us happy by the waves that fall on the dashapavitra as a stream of yours. 
The gods who take the sacrificial sacrifice in the yajna of the gods, they should take part of the yajna in this yajna. Please drink the sacrifice of honey and ghee yourself without calling in the Devgan Yagya. (13)
At the time when the characters of the yajna, the gods, installed this agni and the Aditiputra devas in heaven, they became the ones who wandered from the couple at that time, only then all the beings saw them. 
Indra is the one who gives praiseworthy money, who gives glory in wars, who gives glory in wars, and defeats enemies through war. 
I inspire gandharvas, apsaras, serpents, devas, holy people, ancestors and beings seen and unnoticed to kill the enemy army with my mantra force. (15)
Oh my god! You grow up out of the trough. You work permanently. O friend God! We associate with you for fear of destroying this holy vessel. It's not broken. It works well. (64)
 O agni! Your desire is commendable. You are a poet 
Let these living people return from the dead. Today our Pitramedha Yajna be beneficial. Let's be oriented towards dance and humor and take a longer stage. 
We went to the land of flamboyant king Asamati, enemy destroyer, fullfilling everyone's wishes like a chariot, the defeater of Bhajertha. 
 The hosts mix Som in the water. They crush with stones and remove somersas. He is superior to the gods. Let the host water from him everywhere. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as eleven bulls, produce children from this cow, otherwise you will be considered powerless. (11)
They go all the way to the awakening and uninvited Som devas and reach Dashapavitra to be holy. 
O Varun Dev! Just as the owner of the chariot heals the tired horse, so we also please your heart by the praises. 
O Indra! You discovered humans in the Dashraj war. You had become formless for everyone. You conceived for the sacrifice with them. (10)
O mighty Indra! Praise the man who praises you. Oh, it's a maghwan! There is no one to give pleasure except you. That's why I praise you. 
We invoke Aditi Dev in the morning. He is the conqueror, the fortunate, the holder of the fierce world. It has been said that whoever the rich, the poor, the patient, the king is, they worship the desired wish Siddhihetu Sun. (35)
May the divine water bless us. He is our best. Water is for us to drink. May he be happy for us and may he be kind to flow for us. (12)
O poet, of the best of wisdom, worthy of choice, the angels of the gods and the agni that carries the divine! The gods sit around you. 
The five verses of atharvanas, that is, the sages who compose these richas, should get this sacrifice well. (1)
O God of Agni! The demon who wants to destroy the essence of our body and who wants to contaminate the body juices of our horses, cows and sons, grandsons etc., is this type of shrew smuggler and robber. Let it be destroyed. Let him be destroyed by his body and by his offspring. (10)
O Indra! The man of whom you will become a protector will receive food that makes you powerful by the praises. O Shur Indra! Be the protectors of our chariots and our daughters. 
The two-birth mother comes forward and eats three brothers named Agni, Ajya, Purodash and Soma. The grain consumed by fire increases in one year. The working fires grow in one form by the mouth and tongue and the other by burning the forests by removing everyone from them in a wild way. 
O agni! You are the deva of cities. You are rich. You are confirmed. You make all directions welfare. Please be reputed here in your native place. (59)
Other people don't do as much as they donate. They are adorned with their necklaces, ornaments and bodies. The marudgans with pervading radiance wear the same ornaments for adornment while illuminating the diva-prithvivi. 
O Indra! Squeezed by stones, beautiful and a matter of delight be it for you. Sit on your green chariot and come before us with the help of horses called Hari. 
This brilliant hymn! Praise the agni that serves like a horse, is powerful, and as a friend, you will destroy hate. 
May Indra, the Deserts, the Pushas and the Bhaga, worthy of praise, show us the best way for the benefit of heaven. 
We destroy the worms that move in the eyes, which move in the nails and those who live between the teeth. (3)
Prana-like swan drinks milk from milk mixed with water with intelligence. He attains truth from the truth. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk and sweet foods. (73)
O Indra! In the yajna in which the punishment for churning the somlata is tied like the reins of the horse, in the same yajna, drink the somras prepared by Okhali knowing yourself. 
O God of agni! The wise ones who invoke, those who perform the yagna in the seasons, those who receive various wealth, those with hearing-sounding ears and the most famous ones hold you in the yagnas. 
Oh, Yum! You came and sat in this elaborate yagna, keeping in unity with the fathers named Angira. Call you the mantras spoken by the learned ritvis. O Lord Yama! Be pleased with this havi. 
O Indra and Agni! You listen to the call of the host who squeezes the Somras, wish for his voice. Come to his yajna and drink his sweet mon. 
We bring Someras in the chariot with Havi, so that Indra makes our children extraordinary and mutually harmonious. (1)
O Indra! You are going to break many cities of enemies. You are the heirs of bandits, the ones who raise men, and the masters of heaven. 
O fast horse! While taking the rider's body to the battlefield, your body will give us wealth and run to bring you happiness. You go straight to your place to hold the village, district etc. spread in the empty space, just as the light of the sun reaches its place. (3)
On praising, Indra had illuminated the sun for a man named Etash, who squeezed the soma. Just as the father gives his share to the son, so Etash gave Indra the secret and priceless Somarupi wealth. 
O Indra! When you drove away the divine maya of Swarbhanu, which was spread in the place under the sun, the sun covered by darkness that hindered the karmas was received by the sage Atri by speaking four verses. 
O Indra, the most comforter and protector of the swayamdharup somras! The soma which is going to give you the ultimate pleasure and give wealth to the hymns, may the same Somras give you happiness when it is removed. 
O God of air! Use your speed towards those who hate us or those we hate. (3)
O Indra! Go and reach out to the enemies and defeat them, no one can regulate your thunderbolt nor is he able to overwhelm your power, so you must kill the demon Vritra and get the water held by him and demonstrate your dominion. 
This is the donation of The Son of The Son of Shobhan Dhan, The Daughter of Prithushrava. He has given a chariot of gold, the most powerful and inspiring of all, Prithushrava has achieved a much increased keeti. 
The woman of Devil Maya had first made a medicine to remove leprosy. Blue medicines destroyed leprosy and made the skin as healthy as before. (2)
O agni! Make the animals like cows etc. of our use praiseworthy. May all human beings bring money as an offering for us. Just as the son gets wealth from the old father, in the same way, the host serves you in the places of many devyagyas and gains wealth. 
O Jataveda Agni Dev! You see demons sitting somewhere and walking somewhere. They create nuisance towards us in this country. Even while going to the sky, you who pull that monster, be sharp and kill it with your flames. (5)
When ignited, the fire grows everywhere. Scholars offer prayers to Usha through Ritvij hymns. Destroying the darkness with light, Usha Devi comes to end our sins. 
These virtuous and beautiful wives and women should enter their homes with ghee and food grains. May these women be the first to reach their homes without tears, disease-free and beautiful. 
Especially the wise people combine the mind and intellect to make the huge yajna of the Ritwijjaman a success. He knows all sciences. He also holds them. The praise of Savita Dev is glorious and satisfying. (4)
At this time, the enemy who runs, which is not located here separately and who does not cover you, indra kills his thunderbolt in the place of that enemy. 
 Whenever a person prays for the Swami Host, praise the God Varuna with special protective prayers. He is the remover of Varuna sins and the one who wears many types of deeds. 
Indra, a friend and a man of adornment, had searched for the cows even if there were no footprints of the cows and gave them to the devas. The gods fulfilled their desire through Indra. 
Hey Mon! Man and his ten fingers milk the very sweet and thousands of streams of soma for the gods. Hey Mon! You satisfy the gods by men with the help of stones and by conquering thousands of riches. 
Hey Mon! Indra found your friendship and with his help, he flowed water to human beings. He hit the vritra, inspired the flowing water and opened the gates that blocked the stream. 
O Swami of the praises and maruts, Indra! Come to this Sommaya Yagya of ours with all of you gods and take havi and increase our yajna. (3)
O Indra, who has been called by many and rich! You appear close to these scholars. They have become rich and advanced by your grace. These people worship the mighty Indra in yagnas to get sons, grandsons and other fruits and for the sake of wealth. 
 O Mon! Like the horse you have to refine. You increase the power. You give strength and glory. You stay full in dronalakash. 
Great Som has done a lot of work. The sanctum of water, Som, has resorted to the devas. Pavmana Som has oozed Indra and created a brighter in the sun. 
O earth! Whoever wants to weaken or kill us by taking an army with hatred to us, destroy it to protect us. (14)
 Indra is a mountaineer. He showed the horsepower hidden in the clouds. The forces opposing the Aryans were taken away. 
 O Indra! O agni! The host worships you. The sings of your songs are the same. We also invite you for food money. 
Sattva binds one to material happiness; rajas conditions the soul toward actions; and tamas clouds wisdom and binds one to delusion.
Those who have stabilized the vast earth, who have possessed heaven and Aditya, and those who make up water in space, let us worship the same Prajapati through Havya. 
All over and around the medicines are covered with diseases in such a way that the thief overtakes the goshala. Whatever disease occurs in the body, it is destroyed by the medicines. 
The soms, which extend the Satyarup Yajna, spread over the Dashapavitra, live in water like the front of Varuna's tongue. Those who perform yajnakarma find those mons. Those who are unable to perform yajnakarma go to hell. 
O Mother night! Give us the dawn and give us the day. O night! Day provide us to you. (2)
O agni! Give us wealth through all your forms, the glory of yours which is going to go to the fatherland in the form of heavenly, your name is going to go to the fatherland in the form of havi swadha and your confirmation in the pasture of human beings, animals, etc. (3)
O agni! You are the yagya-doer of the people and the messenger of the gods. Wake up in the morning and bring the gods who see the sun here to drink somers. 
The Supreme Personality of Godhead is Fire. That's Aditya. That's the air. The same moon is bright. The book is water and the same Prajapati. (1)
O Rudra Dev! You are the protector of passers-by on many paths. They are the ones who nourish the animals with food and are armed. Those who are struggling in the war of life, you remove their bows from us thousands of plans. You make their bows unfilled. (60)
We beseech for a bright and strong shelter for the agni dependents and the maruts that attract the trees. He is the rudraputra marudgana who takes the form of rain, achhinating, roaring like a lion and giving water. 
 O agni! You are the destroyer of all enemies. You are definitely present at the Yagyavedi. 
 The priests who sang sama praised Indra by singing brihatsam, the hosts also praised Indra by singing mantras. 
 O Indra! You can lift the world with your speed. You have appeared with yajna. You can make the old man semen. You are a special knowledgeable, a giver and a giver to worshippers. Publishing the true form reaches somerus you. 
Just as fame is located in this host and in this yajna, this gem made of varan tree should give me fame and opulence in the same way. (23)
This fire moves rapidly with the creatures who make great words, licking the bushes that cover mother earth like clothes from all sides. He gives food items to the feet, that is, humans and animals, and blackens the place from which he walks, by burning the triendi. 
There are three heavens, three lands and six dasas in these Varunas. The admirable Lord Varuna has made the sun like a golden swing for light. 
Prana becomes pregnant and circulates in the gods, the same is well pervaded and regenerated as the body of human beings etc. The present life is produced in the form of things of the past and in the form of objects of the future. He enters the father and son with his powers. (20)
O Khandakh, O Khemakh and O Frogs called Taduri! You stay in the middle of the pond and give us rain with your ghosh. O our Swami Manduko! You control the mind of the wind with your voice. (15)
Hey Ritvijo! Praise the indestructible, incorrigible and bearable brightness of the marudganas located among the milking cows. He grew up due to drinking fast cow's milk. 
O Savita Dev! Give us the best and most selectable money today. You're the best gemstone giver. We speak riches-generating praises. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
In this way, the expansion is achieved by all the gods and the heterogeneous human beings of their jati, so that they can see happily. Because of her pure body, Usha does not move away from anyone small and big. 
Due to this prapancha, the gods who were born first, knowing the whole world with beneficial and niravaran knowledge, describe the births of all the gods like Indra etc. The first born God saved the Vedas from the middle part of Brahman, from the lower part and from the upper part. After this, the devas got food in the form of havi. (3)
Hey Mon! You make an old friendship with us. Drive away from us the gentle and overeating monster. You defeat the enemies and suffer those who hinder us. You save us from those who hold the outer and inner maya. 
I have achieved my goal as the best fruit. May the world and the earth give me the best fruit. The best directions like east etc. should be enemy-free for me. O opponent! I should not hate you, so may I have protection. (1)
We praise the air for welfare. We also pray to the foster mon of all the lokas. We praise Jupiter with the god group for well-being. Adityas may do us well. 
These five are the contributory factors for whatever action is performed, whether proper or improper, with body, speech, or mind. Those who do not understand this regard the soul as the only doer. With their impure intellects they cannot see things as they are.
O the great agni in the Angiras! All the people come to you separately to fulfill their desires. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You give us the same strength as the Deserts. You are pure and adorned in many ways. You are the conqueror of enemies and as holy as water. Give us the same holy intellect. Just as the holy people stay away from jealousy, malice, so should we also stay away from evil tendencies. 
Even after Indra prays, if he does not donate Vasha, then due to this sin, the gods spread ego and erase it. (50)
Tell me about the God in whom Prajapati resides and holds all the worlds, who is He? (7)
The devas possessed the abode of all the riches that took place in ancient times and today, the abode of the workgroup that was produced and in the future, and the protector and the giver of the things present at this time and born in the future. 
Vajradhari Indra gained the power of rain with these maruts and irrigated the earth by rain by killing Vritra. The deserts themselves help in the rain work done by the great Indra. 
By decorating itself, the agni gives power to the host and food to the gods. O multi-grained agni! Bring the gods to this yagna for the sake of our welfare. 
Fire is present in the form of the sun in the sky and garahapati on earth. Fire has entered all the herbs to cook them. He will protect us from the enemy during the day and night. 
O earth! May your east, north, south and west directions give me the power of rotation. I can't fall while living in this world. (31)
O Indra! You get growth from stotras and uwasthas. You are the benefactor of those who praise. (1)
Savita is worthy and fortunate. We worship them wisely. May they please inspire our wisdom. (35)
Oh, the wind going here! You bring the herbs. O wind going there! You take the sins. You are like all the medicines and walk as messengers of the gods. 
Yama said, "The spies of the gods who roam here, they never stop or close their eyes. O you who are hurting Yami! You go quickly to someone other than Me and do an interesting work like the wheels of the chariot. 
Agriculture, dairy farming, and commerce are the natural works for those with the qualities of Vaishyas. Serving through work is the natural duty for those with the qualities of Shudras.
May Swami Aryama, Swami and Jupiter, give us wealth. May Goddess Indrani and Saraswati Devi with a beloved voice give us wealth. (3)
 The currents of Soma are spreading like the rays of the sun in the moving vessel. Apart from Indra, he does not meet anyone else. 
A group of Adityas, Rudras and Vasus listen to this newly created hymn of ours. Other gods born in heaven, born on earth and born of the earth, also listen to it. 
We remove the agni. We request him to go away to Yamrajya. May the omniscient agni increase the yajna in our homes. Please carry agni to our havi and bring it to the gods. (19)
Fire with red mark Taurus flame, two animals with white color Savita Dev from the bottom place, two animals with silver colored navel are related to Pusha Dev, two animals with yellow song above are related to the world and spotted animal belongs to Marut Dev. Kala Aj Agni, Meshi Saraswati and fallible animals are related to Varun Dev. (59)
Indra Somras sanctifies the yajna-doers and stotas when they go to Nikud and have become great for the benefit of the increased force. 
I remove the head disease from your eyes, nose, ears, theody, etc. and diseases like tuberculosis from your head and tongue. (17)
Gandharva is a form of sacrifice and sacrifice. They are the givers of food items. Please protect Gandharva Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Dakshina, called Stuti, is the nymph of the yajna. This sacrifice is dedicated to them. For them. (42)
Possessed and led astray by such imaginings, enveloped in a mesh of delusion, and addicted to the gratification of sensuous pleasures, they descend to the murkiest hell.
O God of Agni! You have originated from Arani Manthan. This God mata Aditi wants to cook rice to feed Brahmins in this karma called Brahmaudanasav with the wish of son. Marich etc. sapta rishis are going to make the earth etc. May they produce you with the host's son, grandson etc. through churning in this devyagya. (1)
The squeezing mons, loosed by the ritvijs, go up to the dashapavitra made of high and sheep's hair. Som goes to Dronakalash through his intoxicating and green stream. 
O you who are blessed with glory, Maruto! The Indus and Asikni rivers are the herbs in the seas and mountains. 
At the same time that Jupiter knew the tone of the cows that were standing in the cave, at the same time, he pierced the mountain and took out the singing singing alone, in such a way that the bird breaks the egg and pulls out the child. 
O Giver Indra! Give us the wealth that is worthy of your giving, just as the host pleases ritvizh by giving more dakshina, so also I will please you. The psalms want to praise you by those who give a quick groom. Just as people reinforce a woman's breast to get milk, so we will reinforce you by giving you food. 
I serve Agni and Aditya, the chief among the priests and those who call the gods, through Havya and follow the path of yajna without hindrance. I beseech all my near, regionalist, deathless and unpretentious gods. 
O man of seekers! The kind of genitals of a deer called Paraswat, of an elephant, of a donkey and similar to the genitals of a horse located in puberty, your male sense should also increase in the same magnitude. (3)
O Indra! Look at us as the guide ahead, bring us good wealth before us, and overcome us with sorrows and enemies. You become the best leader and drive us towards wealth. 
Oh, Usha! The beautiful and wide chariot you sit on, O daughter of heaven! Come to the havandata host by the same chariot today. 
Somerus mixed with curd is sacred. This somers is getting ready for Indra, who drinks Som. (3)
What is action and what is inaction? Even the wise are confused in determining this. Now I shall explain to you the secret of action, by knowing which, you may free yourself from material bondage.
Salutations to the gentle. Salutations to the regressor. Salutations to the judge. Salutations to those who are well-wished. Salutations to the verse. Salutations for the closing ball. Salutations to the wavers and collectors. (33)
Bribu sat in such a high place among the valleys as the bank of the high Ganga. 
The man who serves with praises through the sacrificial act of agni, he becomes more majestic than other people and receives the wealth of enemies to protect his offspring. 
Fire roars like a cloud. From heaven, they pervade the earth. They surround the vines and burn quickly. They enlighten everyone and all. They illuminate everything with their light. (6)
Just as Ashchinikumaro married Surya, savita's daughter, in the same way, Bhaga told me to bring a wife. (2)
Fire is true and immortal. We confirm the agni as true as Angira Rishi. Please be happy to receive all the medicines and get agni dev. Please be shivmaya (welfare) towards all of us. You take away all our sufferings. Make you healthy. You sit down. By your grace, evil sense leaves us. (47)
Both types of winds coming from the sea and the country away from it should run. Prana and apana vayu move in his body. O men with upanayana rites! May the air of life give you strength and may your air remove your sins. (2)
When the wives come before us, give us a son with the skin of Shobhanahath. 
The Guru said to his disciple in this way: O Devdutt! If you consume this odan from a different page from the page from which the sages performed the previous rituals, that is, from the cosmic surface, then electricity will destroy you. As an answer to this, the disciple should tell his guru that I have not consumed this odan without any face, nor from the front, nor without being self-oriented. I have delivered it where it should have gone. This odan is of all the organs and the whole body. By this method, who wants to consume this odan. He is the one with all the joints and full fruits with all the organs and is located in heaven etc. (9)
For this woman, the antelope form asana should get Mars and protection. May these gods be pleased. O Siniwali! May this woman continue to have children. (21)
These vaanis praise savita with shobhanjihwa, who is full of wealth and full of wealth. They give us strange and great wealth. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
O Satyaswaroop Ashwinikumaro! You come quickly to my eulogies to drink the sweet somras. 
O agni! You are glorious, bright, superior property giver and wealthy. We happily offer sacrifices to the rich agni. (15)
 O Mon! You are energetic. After Vritrasura is killed, bow down to the clouds that shed water. Get rid of them together in their water. Be enjoyable. You get more bright together in the water. You flow around us in the form of cow's milk. 
The pleasures that arise from contact with the sense objects, though appearing as enjoyable to worldly-minded people, are verily a source of misery. O son of Kunti, such pleasures have a beginning and an end, and so the wise do not delight in them.
O patient suffering from urinary disease! I pierce the path of your urine in the same way as you dig a drain to drain out the water of the reservoir. All your urine came out saying words. (7)
Hey friend and Varun! Listen to my call as well as the call of others present in the yagnamandapa. Listen to our praises, the water god Sindhu, who listens to our call, watering our crops' fields with water. 
We praise agni, vegetation, herbs and crops, trees, Indra, Jupiter and sun. May they free us from all sins. (1)
Where there are great trees and peacocks like Ashwattha, Nyagrodh etc., O Apsarao! From there, go to your place of residence and stay there. (4)
The vampire runs away from the village where this force of mine, generated by the effect of the mantra, enters and resides. People living there do not know the sin of violence of vampires. (8)
 O Indra! Tirshchi 
These dripping mons go to heaven despising the whole world while saying the word 'Som'. 
O green golden som living in the water! Ritwizu purifies you to drink without labor to the gods and give them strength. 
Unwed cow says durdamna. The owner of the cow gets the power and the vividya i.e. blood fever dissolved from the adhishthana of the vasha i.e. the place of residence. (4)
This golden wealth is life, domination, wealth and confirmation. This golden wealth is generated from the land. This golden wealth is dominating. This golden wealth is bright. Please give us this golden wealth victory. (50)
O agni! Make us sinless with your own swiftness, and sanctify us with the actions of squeezing the somras. 
O Indra! May our praises for you be true and do not trouble you. O thunderbolt Indra. Just as people consume the milk of cows, let us receive pleasures by your grace. 
O air! The people who are adorned more than the kings of Prithushrava Uchastha and Vayu and are as pure as disgusting, the food they have sent by loading them on horses, donkeys and dogs, this is your grace. 
Vasishthagotriya vipra awakens Usha before all the people through hymns and groups of mantras. Usha covers the dyava-prithvi with equal parts and reveals all the bhuvanas. 
May the importance of Vayu and Savita Dev, who are well known by the people, both of whom hold water in the sky and no other God who is able to get the good movement of Air and Savita, both of them should free us from sin. (2)
Three hulokas, three earths, three spaces i.e. medium world, four oceans, three types of hymns named Trivrit and three types of water, all of them should protect you with a gem named Trivrit. (3)
O agni! You defeat the enemies. Destroy your enemies. O agni! It's rare for you to win. O agni! You give food to the host who performs the yajna with mantra, make it bright. (37)
Those who spat on Brahmins and those who wished to take money from Brahmins are lying in a stream of blood and eating hair. (3)
O agni that carries the wind! The gods held you. O agniworthy of sacrifice!  The men who desire you possessed you. O agni! Give food to my hymn in the yajna. The godly host receives many praises from you. 
O mighty and ashwaswamy Indra! In this yajna, let us not become partners of exchange and sin. Save us by your unhindered defenses. We are dear to your hymns. 
O you who give soon, Maruto! We are delighted to see your chariot like a radiant going everywhere for the rain. 
Hey Mon! You are the ones who make the ritvijas rejoice, the ones who wear the yagna, the scholars and have been squeezed by us. You should be the one who makes Indra very sweet with the food. 
Friends also tell the sinners to stota the way to become a homeowner. Even if the servant is a perpetrator of violence, the friend has a good sense of wisdom. 
Indra Dev is a good protector, very helpful, all-glorious and omniscient. They should interrupt those who hate Im and make us fearless, by their grace we become guardians of good might. (51)
 O agni! You are flammable light. We ignite you in the house. You are beautiful. The hosts establish you in the yagna to protect themselves. 
Just as horses are run in wars, so so may our praises inspire agni. By the grace of agni, let us conquer all the riches. 
The creator of all the karmas, the karma-efficient, the rasatika, the more virtuous and unbeatable Som goes here and there. When there is a calamity, everyone's friends shower the word 'Som' in this way, just as the horse goes into the horses. 
Please move towards north direction. Please protect you from the fruitful wealth of anushtupap. Please protect you from the fruitful wealth of Vairaj Sam. Please protect you from one-winded stom fruitful wealth. Please protect you in the form of fruitful wealth in the form of autumn. (13)
Just as kings are pleased with praises and yagyas with seven hotas, so Som is Sanskrit by mixing cow's milk and curd etc. 
You take us to the beautiful grassy land. Let us not have any new trouble on the way. O God! You know about protecting us in this path. 
O Maruto! Your hapht, desirous of water to protect the world, those who increase food, those who join the chariot to walk, are seen on all sides moving, compatible with electricity and speaking words in three places, and the water sign begins to fall on the earth. 
O goddess of the night! You take this praise of Mine from me to rathveeti. Just as the chariot owner carries the goods on the chariot, so you deliver them. 
This goddess is the ultimate end of the earth. This Soma is the semen of the wide Vishnu who wishfully. This yajna is the navel i.e. center of all bhuvanas. Brahman is the ultimate vyom of this speech. (14)
O Ritvijo! You worship Ashwini Kumars in the morning and give them havya. The havya given in the evening is unavoidable, so Dev does not accept it. Whoever performs yajna before us or satisfies them with Soma, the same host is more dear to the gods. 
O hosts! You are our friend. You come and sit down. Sing praises while filtering the Mon. Just as the child is decorated with ornaments, so you decorate Soma with Havi and other means of yajna. 
We choose the messengers and the invokers of the gods, the possessors of all the possessions and the fire that beautifully completes this yajna. 
I follow the Sapta Rishis. They should give me money and give Brahm tej. (39)
Oh, God! I am the one who spoke some hymns in ancient times when the soma was squeezed for you. Just as the thirsty deer is consumed by the tiger, so the mental sufferings are eating me. O earth and sky! Know this suffering of mine. 
O fearless Indra! We are scared. so our fear causes trouble us. Make us fearless. O rich Indra! You protect us with your means of defense. You destroy our enemies and in our enemy battles make us victorious (1)
Indra appears as the Sun from one part of the sky and ends the same black night every day to illuminate the latter half. Indra, who rained, had killed the money-seeking dasas - Shambar and Varchi in a place called 'Udvanjra'. 
O yajna energy! You yourself are strong. Make your body come to fruition. You yourself expand with the yajna. You connect with the substances. Please make them alive. May your glory never be destroyed. (15)
O God, Marut! Just as gopal 
 O Brahmanaspati! Just as you made The Chamber, the son born of Ushij, knowledgeable, successful, so please make us Somayagis also. 
We call indra, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the one who hears praises, the fiercest for the enemies, the demon destroyers in battle and the conqueror of the wealth of the enemies. 
 O agni! You are the protector, awakener and skill giver of the people. You appear to guide the host on the path of progress. You are ignited by the offering of ghee. You have access to the vast 
Who are the people who bind enemies, the protectors of the people, the charitable and the bright? They are all servants of agni. Who is the protector of the one who holds falsehood and the one who shelters the evil words? That is, no devotee of agni is of this kind. 
Deserts are beautiful to look like a house with food grains. The praise of Rudraputra Maruts is beneficial. Let us be successful among human beings by having the wealth of cows. Oh, God! We are always rich in food. 
An act made with organs like head, nose, ears etc. brings many types of objections. We drive him away. Let him go away from us. (2)
Indra, under the intoxication of Somras, has extended the stunning space and destroyed the mighty cloud. 
May our praises reach indra in all respects to the centurion, the master of water, the leader of all worlds, the annadata, the breaker of enemy cities, the instigator of war, the one who inspires water, the fast-takers, the enemies, and the recipients of heaven. 
The wealth that I have received from the sacrament through the home and vice versa has been given to me by the father gods for consumption. Humans have allowed the consumption of it. The wealth due to which my mind is stimulated by the excess of joy, by the grace of Agni Dev, that money should be blameless for me. (2)
O agni admired by awakening hymns! You ignite. The demonic agni is located on the north altar and is made of all the havi from the desire for food. Selectable, broad, radiant and behave like a friend of shobhan agni. 
In which it is difficult to enter, such a night is present by pervading all the grazing items. Everyone praises this very food night. It is located by spreading forests, mountains, oceans etc. Just as the sun attracts the world every moment with its brightness with the means of food etc. provided by the host etc., in the same way, this night also covers the world. (2)
Hey Ritvijo! Worship Indra quickly. Do praises by targeting Indra. Let the squeezed Mon please Indra. After this, worship the most praiseworthy and mighty Indra. 
O global agni! No one can hinder your famous great deeds, for you have created the sun, which gives knowledge of the day, by being born in the lap of the earth-celestial parents. 
O burn of divine flow! You are part of Indra. Fast water is semen. You install fast in us. You have come from Prajapati's residence. We give you a certain place in this world. (8)
Mamata's son, Longatama, had aged in the tenth age under the influence of the Ashvinikumaras. He became the leader of the swarwadi karma-fruiting people and the same director as the charioteer. 
O aschinikumaro! Sage Gritsamad has composed these mantras and hymns for your advancement. Hey leaders! You come wanting them. We will receive shobhan son-grandson and speak many praises in this yajna. 
Chait and Vaishakh months are related to spring season. May both seasons keep the agni connected from the inside. May heaven and earth cooperate with each other. May the medicines come to fruition for us. May the agni with the same fast please help in big tasks. These agnis between heaven and earth are equal minded. The agni should be covered by spring. May they please come to fruition. All gods should take shelter of Indra. Sit with the agni god like a angira. (25)
O Indra! Give quick money for receipt of money. We will draw your mind towards us by the revered praises. You make us masters of cows, horses and chariots and protect us forever by means of welfare. 
 O Mon! You are a good deed, a giver of wealth and power. You are never distressed. Garuda, please bring you from heaven to earth. 
O Indra and Mon! You must destroy the demons who praise sin well. You put an end to the demons infected by your speed in such a way that the charu poured into the ann disappears. Treat the Brahmins with malice, the meat-eater, the scary-eyed, and the harsh-spoken demons in such a way that you will always have an antipathy towards them. 
Pronouncing the word Indra, Som adds a horse called Etash to the sun's chariot to go in the directions of the sun. 
We are alive here by the grace of the ancestors who are here. May these fathers remain compatible with us. We are the best in them. Let us both be superior together. (87)
We call the revered fire like a guest to enjoy the havan. They are the protectors of all the peoples, equally the homeowners and the psalmists of human beings. Just as the Son comes close to the Father to get annadi, so all the gods come near to the fire to attain the good. That is why Ritvij performs havan in the fire itself with the desire to give havan to other deities. 
Just as streams of emotions burst from the sea of the heart, the enemy cannot see these streams, so the streams of dhee burst in this yajna. We see the agni present between these streams from all sides. (93)
 O Varuna! You remove the upward and downward bonds from us. You relax all our bonds. So that we can walk according to your law and live a life without sin and suffering. 
Mon is known to be conscious of all beings as well as with the light of the morning. The green- coloured, beautiful, intoxicating, man-admired wealth- admired by humans and gods, gives to the host and puts the creatures of the earth and heaven into his own work, goes to the middle of The Som Dyava-Earth. 
 Scholars believe that there is a divine radiance of the sun in the moving lunar system, that is, when the sun is hidden, the moon is illuminated by their light. 
O Angiragotrian sages! You have collectively attained indra's friendship and immortality through the sacrificial substances and the dakshina. May you have good luck. O shobhan medha wale angirao! You accept my son of Manu at this time. I will do your yajna well. 
Which Kshatriya king, willing to give us a place of residence, will save us from the obstructionist and harmful vampire at this time? Wishing for the yajna performed by us and wishing to supply us money, which god gets the life that takes place forever among the gods? (1)
O workman Ashwinikumaro! Come by the same means by which you were able to walk the paralysed paravrija, skilled in seeing the blind, the janus-free shron, the dynamic and the renally taken-up of the bird vartika. 
Oh, God! Just as the milch cow goes into the place of milking in the morning and in the evening, so we appear before you in the morning with a hymn of praise, with a desire to conquer sins. We mix ghee, milk, etc. produced from cow's trunks and bring them daily. 
Indra, who had a green beard and with a green horse, prepared a thunderbolt to kill the bandit. Indra with beautiful jaws is as bizarre as the sky. 
O agni! The vampire who is wishing to destroy this man by entering milk, matutha and food cooked by agriculture, should suffer with his child and this man should become disease-free. (7)
O aschinikumaro! Know the best and consumable wealth to give me. King Kashu, born in the Chedivansh, has given me the C camel and a thousand songs. You know them. 
There is a gold cane in the water. The one who knows this is the secret Prajapati. (41)
O Indra Dev! When we fight with enemies full of ego and considering ourselves to be big, then we should be able to destroy violent enemies with our arms. If you ever fight for food or fame, then we will win by becoming your ally. (4)
 O Indra! Turvash and Yadu were thrown away by the enemies, you brought them back to you with your best policy. You are young. You become our friend. 
O Indra! After preparing somersa, the host invokes you. When will you come to our yagna to drink this someras thirsty like a bull? (2)
The pestle of odan with this kind of glory is the eye and the ulukhal ears. (3)
Destroy the demons from here together with the demons' agni mantras. O woman! The obstacles and diseases that are taking shelter of your vagina and harming your womb, they should be destroyed. 
O praiseworthy and wishing aschinikumaro! Give me the money you give or take for the Psalms every day. 
We invoke Indra Dev, Vayu Dev, Brihaspati Dev, Mitra Dev, Agnipusha Dev Bhaga Dev, Adityagan and Marudgan. (45)
O Vishnu! You are frontal. You are both parts of the frontal. Vishnu broadens all the worlds. You are stable. You are the pole. We establish the wood god for the happiness of Vishnu. (21)
The fingers squeeze the juice of the green colored mon. Som sits in the descructified chariot in the form of Dashapavitra with his pervading and moistening rays. After this, Indra's friend and scholar som walks from Dashapavittra to the stota with the best praises. 
Salutations for located in the sand. Salutations for located in prabah. Salutations for located in stone. Salutations for situated in water. Salutation for located in cowry, oyster etc. Bow down to those located in the bridge, bow to the straws and those located in the superior path. (43)
Scholars of the Vedas describe him as Imperishable; great ascetics practice the vow of celibacy and renounce worldly pleasures to enter into him. I shall now explain to you briefly the path to that goal.
O Indra! I describe your new and old deeds. You have faced demonic illusions, so Someras has become yours. (6)
O Jataveda Agni Dev! Whoever is playing against us and who wants to eat us, together with all the gods, drop his curtain. (2)
O Indra! Only when the scholars who praise use their speech, the gods are pleased with them. (1)
Activities do not taint me, nor do I desire the fruits of action. One who knows me in this way is never bound by the karmic reactions of work.
Indra had donated medicines, days, flora and space. Indra had separated the cloud, killed opponents and oppressed those who had come forward for war. 
Those who are as bright as the sun and as bright as gold are the best of the gods and because of their abode. 
O Indra! The ancient gods and demons considered themselves inferior to you in the use of power and violence. Indra defeats the enemies and gives their wealth to his devotees. The stotas praise Indra for getting food. 
The host whom Varunadi Dev makes money with his own hands and protects from the violent, he prospers by staying safe. 
Just as the king's head of wealth protects wealth, so the jangid mani protects us. The Jangid Mani has been made a protector by the Devas and Brahmins in all ways and destroyer of enemies. (2)
The night goddess completes the earth with darkness. They complete the space world with darkness and pervades heaven. In this way, the night goddess is pervading everyone with darkness. (32)
O Maruto! When will you come to the wise stota with money, who so calls, begs, and the wise stota, the reason for happiness? 
O aschinikumaro! You have placed one wheel of your chariot on top of the stationary mountain to destroy the enemies and the other is moving around in the sky. 
O Charioteeswami Ashwinikumaro! You destroy the mountains standing in the way by your victorious chariot. O Kampurko! Listen to the call of the host-wife who wants a son, fulfill the desire of the stoetas, make the cow that does not give the calf of your stota to the milch, and go everywhere as a benevolent. 
Ody particles are horses, rice cows and husks are mosquitoes. (5)
Being purified by dashapavitram, the king of man and gods, the lord of man and gods, the lord of wealth and the lord of infinite wealth, soma, possesses the welfare and adornment of water in both the gods and the human beings. 
Let us follow the path on which the gods are attained. To perform whatever rituals we can, go on the path of the gods. Let the agni that knows receive that path to the gods. The same agni is going to invoke gods and human beings. Protect agni sacrifices and seasons. (3)
Anne is the star of the gods by wisdom. They sit in the place maintained by the gods. The herbs, trees and lands all hold and keep the womb. 
As the night passes, the mons adorned with water go aiming at the grains. The ten fingers that perform the deeds of the serving host send the green mon into the vessel. 
O Indra! I sanctify both the earth and the sky through yajna and I know well the earth that shelters the enemies. The gathered enemies were killed wherever we found them. The dead are lying around in the cremation ground. 
Som has given me this power of the one who receives my love. I annoy your mind with the special affection generated by them. (1)
O Indra! You levelled the earth, borderless and fickle and set it in its place. The workman Indra holds the earth and the sky in such a way that they cannot fall. The water inspired by you came to the earth. 
O ashamvinikumaro! You protect the host like the guardian protecting the son. Indra Dev is a scholar. They listen to the prayers of the host. Ashwini Dev protects when there is a disaster in the struggle. Indra Dev drinks medicines with his power, then Saraswati Devi praises you. (77)
The earth has given birth to a group of fast-paced maruts for a great war. Maruts of the same form produced water. After this, all the people saw the desired food. 
 Someras is intoxicating. It is indra's drinkable. It is still drunk today. It was drunk earlier too. Songs on Som also eat happiness. 
The guest performs havan in the soul of those served food items. (4)
As a person sheds worn-out garments and wears new ones, likewise, at the time of death, the soul casts off its worn-out body and enters a new one.
O mighty Indra! Sumitra made a hundred such eulogies for you and Durmitra also made a hundred praises. You protected the son of Kuts at the time of banditization. 
There are trees named Peepal, Khair, Dhava. (14)
O patient man! Just as the house is located in the world with constellations, just as the earth is located at the base of all, just as this visible world is located, just as the standing and sleeping trees are located upwards, in the same way, this blood flowing disease of yours is located, that is, your blood flow should stop. (1)
Vasha attacks the gods who hurt the ears of the cow. One who considers himself to be the one who does not chill on the shoulders of this cow, he makes himself small. (6)
The adornment of these hosts is kusha containing food. At this time, the guardians of our people and the masters of the mares come to space after hearing the first call of the night-related Usha for the welfare of the air and pusha subjects. 
He who knows in this way attains the final state of prosperity of the people and animals. (10)
The directions were born from the navel of this yajna purush from the space world, from the head to heaven, from the feet to the land and from the ears. In this way, the gods named Sadhya and Vasu imagined the worlds, created the worlds. (8)
 O agni! You save us from hostile people and enemies. O agni! Give us a lot of happiness. 
I swallow my human enemy through what I swallow. Just as the ocean swallows the water of the river, so I swallow the enemy's limbs. I first swallow the organs of this enemy and later end it. (3)
That dynamic night of mine had passed near the debt of king of The Rusham country. The sage Vashu, who had come quickly to the salmon of the vegvan horse, had received four thousand cows. 
Virata became a friend of verses and dependent of Varun.. The somras of trishtup verses and medians lay in the part of Indra. Jagati verses took shelter of all the gods. Through these verses sages and men conceived of the yajna. 
O soul! Just as all these people offer sacrifices for you. O listening soul! Everyone presents sacrifices for the one who hears your greatness. (19)
One goiter is red in colour, the other is white in colour and the third is black. Apart from these, two goiter are red in color. I pronounce a name that pleases all this. Pleased with this, you leave this man and go elsewhere. (2)
O leader of the sakal human beings, the followers of the sadhus, the most knowledgeable, the strong and the wealthy agni! Rajarshi, named Trayrun, the son of Vrishna, gave me two bullocks and ten thousand gold coins along with the car. From this donation he became famous. 
O Jupiter! You sit in a chariot that brings out the blasphemies and darkness around you, with light, of yajna, of destroying terrible enemies, of demons, of separating the cloud, and of attaining heaven. 
O Indra! It is heard that you alone killed the anti-sacrificial and principal demon. You arranged for the sun to go over the sky. Dulok holds the rath chakra broken by the vritra through you. 
A man skilled in akshakrada defeats his opponent in gambling, because he searches for the dice of the name Krit. The player, wishing Indra, stops that winning money from being wasted and engages in Indra's work. Indra makes him self-sufficient. (9)
Indra Somrup, with a wide neck, with a large stomach and with a dry arms, is blessed with havya and destroys the shanrus. 
It is a cold earth with vegetation and vegetation! It pleases you people. You have a lot of scaly vegetation above you. Bring you a rain that satisfies the frogs. Please the agni. 
Agni is the benefactor of the five varnas, the seer of all, the holy one, the priest and the host. We beg of agni. 
Animals like cows, horses, servants etc. men and wheat, barley etc. came to me. For this reason, I perform havan with ghee. (3)
The sun travels with the same mind and day. These gods suitably nourish a baby with a completely different form from each other. The sun shines between heaven and earth. That is why the wealth-giving devas hold the agni. (2)
Salutation for located in dry wood. Salutations for located in greenery. Salutations for located in the flower. Salutation for located in the dust. Salutations for located invisible. Salutations for located in the view. Salutations for being fertile and more and more. (45)
We serve the Jatveda Agni by Vasishthagotriya sage Samidha. We will serve the agni by the gods. We will serve the bright flames with lights through the havans. 
O agni! Please pray for friends, Varuna and other gods. You are truthful and huge. Please fill your house with auspicious functions of yajna. (3)
When the lion bird had brought the mon scares the barriers, it was blown up in the wide path at the same speed as the mind. He was quickly blown up with the Sheen Somrup grain, so he had gained fame in this world. 
O Indra and Pusha! One of you, i.e., Indra, goes to drink the sauteed somras in the spoon and the other i.e. pusha wants to eat the sattu of barley. 
O stotao! Pronounce a sweeter voice than honey and ghee towards Indra, who has food in the form of these bright, observable speeches and does not stop cows. (2)
It is I who am the Vedic ritual, I am the sacrifice, and I am the oblation offered to the ancestors. I am the medicinal herb, and I am the Vedic mantra. I am the clarified butter, I am the fire and the act of offering. Of this universe, I am the Father; I am also the Mother, the Sustainer, and the Grandsire. I am the purifier, the goal of knowledge, the sacred syllable Om. I am the Rig Veda, Sama Veda, and the Yajur Veda.
O Indra! This someras pleases you more in the pond with straws of Kurukshetra. That pond is on the banks of the Sushoma River in the Arjik country. 
Those whose minds are established in equality of vision conquer the cycle of birth and death in this very life. They possess the flawless qualities of God, and are therefore seated in the Absolute Truth.
 O agni! You are our friend. You are going to do the best deeds. Fulfill man's desire quickly. You are the swami of wealth and the one who holds water. We all seekers with the same intellect pray to you for our protection. 
O true agni! Even when you are born by the hosts, you certainly destroy the sins of the host. 
The leather tied in the hand of the bow holder is wrapped like a snake protecting the hand from the injury of the bow string and knowing all things protects the bowed man by the virility. 
Indra makes his sharp weapons faster with the desire to kill the traitors, the violent, and the demon who does not know Indra. In the ushakaal, loans hinder us. The debtor Indra suffers these ushas from our unknowingly distant. 
 O agni! You blacken all the forests with your tongue. We should worship those powerful agnis. 
May those god without death destroy our enemies and give happiness to the mortals. 
O man grieving with the fear of death! I bind a hundred knots, chewable in sorrow, with a thousand sons and the best darbha ugra medicine i.e. herbs, to get long life. (1)
O the perfect leader of men and the Most Merciful Indra! The rituals hindered by the demons worship you prominently with the praises and the uvas. Those who perform famous deeds like Vrithrahanan etc. travel to get Indra Shakti. Salutation salutation salutations to Indra, the only ancient and lord of all worlds. 
Mitra Dev conquered knowledge, karma and devotion with the new letter, in the same way we should also overcome him. Varun Dev conquered Viratu with ten letters, we also won in the same way, Indra Dev conquered Tristubhu with eleven letters, so that we also win. Vishva conquered the world with twelve letters, we also got victory in the same way. (33)
O Indra, bring us the radiant wealth. We deserve the wealth of your charity. O rich man! Our desire has increased like that of Baravanal, you fulfill it. 
Vishwamitra replied, "O rivers like a sister! Listen to the words of my praiseor. I have come to you from a distant land with the help of bullock carts and chariots. You become lowly and easily transgressable. O rivers! You are touching the bottom of the wheel of my chariot." 
    O Mon! You are nutritious and live together in water. Just as horses make a sound while going to war, Soma goes to Dronakalsh faster, making a sound. 
O Indra and Agni! What I said at the very beginning of the yajnakarma that I will make you happy with Som by selecting both of you, come to my true faith and drink the squeezed Som. It deserves a special offering by the Som Ritvijs. 
 O Indra! You destroy our enemies in wars. Just as there is more weight in the chariot, so you give us money. You give us money. 
Arjun said: O Supreme Lord, what is Brahman (Absolute Reality), what is adhyātma (the individual soul), and what is karma? What is said to be adhibhūta, and who is said to be Adhidaiva? Who is Adhiyajña in the body and how is he the Adhiyajña? O Krishna, how are you to be known at the time of death by those of steadfast mind?
Who made the thighs, feet, knees, head, hands and mouth, ribs? (14)
This stotao! Please the ancient and the mother of the yagna, Vishnu as you know him, in the same way as you know him, and know his name and do kirtan well. O great Vishnu! We serve your praise. 
I am donating this to the one who does pak action. O sacrificial deed! My wife is also cooperating with me in this work. We have a son with Kumar status in our house. We do this good karma form of yajnana for its welfare and charity etc. (47)
O gods who sit in heaven with the host! To know this host in that heaven. This host will come following that havi-like method. You should recognize this host in heaven. (2)
O agni! You are the one who performs the yagna, the one with the best knowledge, the master of great wealth and the giver of the best wealth. You hear the praise and give you great food and consumable wealth. 
Oh, King! Defeat the enemies, those who climb with the army, those who do not donate, and those who hate us. 
O Indra, the destroyer of enemies! When you destroy bandits, only then both Dyava and Prithivi do you well. 
The man who gives the havan receives all the food by the grace of the agni that gives the havan and finds the house by the agni of the holy light. 
 O Indra! Who has the power to despise you? You are opulent. Your devotees get power and strength from you in bad days only because of their reverence for you. 
This gem produced from fal will protect me by becoming a shield for me. Due to the power of churning and being equipped with juice power, this gem has come to me. (2)
With what effect does this man acquire clouds and search for Somlata? Through whom does this man attain yajna and reverence and who has engaged his mind in the best of the lowest? (19)
To whom the greeters and the domineering yajnakarta accept the yajnakarma of the person with the faultless yajna, the one who accepts the yajnakarma agni goes to him. 
These Ben Devs inspire the water in the womb of the clouds to rain. Chirayu Jyoti Bale worships the sun. By getting water, the hosts are so happy, just as people are happy to get a son. Scholars worship the sun wisely. You have been eclipsed in the urn for Merck (monster-destruction). (16)
We wear the name of ghee in this yajna. They speak again and again. We wear the name of ghee in the yajna. They speak again and again. Brahma please listen to this name from close quarters in this yajna. May ghee with four horns be kindly provided to the fruits of this yajna. (90)
The fringes and edges in this cloth, the warp and weft and the cloth that women have woven, should touch our body happily. (51)
O agni! You're Oz. That's why put the oz in me. This havi is well done havan. (1)
May the earth and the sky always be before me and interconnected. Goddess Saraswati was also oriented and favorable to me. May Indra and Agni be in my favour. O Saraswati Devi! Let us prosper at this time. (3)
Vaishvanar Agni is capable of giving all fruits to all subjects. Independent agnis form spring seasons in the form of sun. They get the food of yajna to the gods. (2)
The sun of virat climbs on space i.e. sky. When the Sun Form Vatsa becomes Brahman, then those Brahmins increase them with ghee and worship them through mantras. (33)
O thunderbolt Indra! All the devas who have come to this yagna are well called and able to protect. They call you for the destruction of the heavens and the earth. You are praiseworthy, the most virtuous and beautiful. 
 O Indra! You give us the happiness that has been going on since ancient times. You should also destroy the enemies, those who create obstacles in happiness, those who behave twice and selfish. 
Arjun Said: O infallible one, by your grace my illusion has been dispelled, and I am situated in knowledge. I am now free from doubts, and I shall act according to your instructions.
O Ashwinikumaro! Come to us by your tribandhur, three-wheeled, three-loka-treading, and a beautifully moving chariot. Make our cows milch, our horses happy, and our sons grow. 
O Lord of wealth, the possessor of the people, the one who is without a curse and with various words, Indra! You make our praise come true. You are the king of all the birthrights. Give us more than the praise you give to The Psalms. 
O Lord Indra! You increase the great wealth and home of the servant. O Lord of Wealth and Praise! We call you somers squeezing. 
The doers of all the world inhabit the agni world, carrying the matter and taking it close to the gods. They come in front of the psalms, come to hear the hymns of the yajnakartas and protect the human beings in battle. 
This horse is playful and wealthy. The earth has come upside down. Good people have been created on earth. He has given the form of a good work. We dig the agni for the best happiness. We ascend the best world for good pleasures. (22)
Rivers flow in our favour, the wind moves in our favour and birds move according to our wishes. The ancient God should accept this yajna of mine, because I am doing this yajna by collecting ghee, milk, etc. (1)
Let Indra come into our yajna. Those who know indra dhanas, how are they? They're going to give money. Drink the best-speed and extremely thirsty Indra Dudhmishrita Som like a archer. 
O Indra with the power of adornment! I first beg of all to ask you to get the best food. I ask of you the power and the food by which you gave the beneficial wealth of the sacrificial people to Bhrigu and protected the offering. 
We make a request to Jayasheel Varuna with the desire to get cows and beg him spontaneously. The early horse is the son of this Varuna. Hey Varun! You are as revered as a Brahmin and give food. 
O aschinikumaro! The measures by which you go to free the sun from the darkness of the eclipse, the measures by which you protected mandhata in the fieldwork and saved the meritorious Bharadwaj by giving food to the meritorious Bharadwaj, come here with the same measures. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Bhuju, who was sent to the sea by Tugrah and immersed in water, easily went across the sea and praised you. O psychologists and work years! You brought Bhuju in a fervent manner by a chariot with shobhan asshon. 
O men! You can hold god power. You wear havi. You are firm. You and your yajna colleagues should not be harsh on anyone. Vishnu and the vast atmosphere (environment) bless you. Your five senses should be engaged in the best works. (9)
If Kravyad Agni or Tiger has entered our seminar, Then I remove it by Mash i.e. Urad Ajya. (4)
West direction please us. Varun is the overswami of this. A snake named Pridaku, who uses the word ugly, is its protector and barley, wheat etc. are the arrows that control the wicked of this direction. Our greetings to its overswami Varuna, the snake named Pridaku, who used to say the word protector, and barley and wheat etc. The enemy that hinders us or the one we hate, O Varuna adi Devo! We keep it in your molars for your devouring. (3)
Space holds everything within it, but being subtle, does not get contaminated by what it holds. Similarly, though its consciousness pervades the body, the soul is not affected by the attributes of the body.
O Indra! Give us vast, non-violent, unified and welfare assets to conquer our enemies. O thunderbolt Indra! By that welfare, you have made the unpaired men sacrificial and have annihilated the enemy people well. 
Salutations to the brown hair. Salutations to the patient. Salutations to Annapati. Salutations to the ordnance holder for the place. Salutations to the world. Salutations to the one who protects him from terrorism. Salutations to the field. Salutations to the immortal charioteer. Salutations to the master of forests. Salutations to Rudra Dev. Salutations to Rudra Dev. Salutations to Rudra Dev. (18)
It is the main date worthy of yajna in the full moon days and nights. Puranmasi is the best of all nights and soma etc. O worthy of yajna! Those who worship you through yajnas like Darshan, Pournamas etc., those hosts with graceful deeds are located in heaven. (4)
Oh, Usha! Come by the beautiful path from the illuminating sky. Let the red cow take you to the yagna of the somayukta host. 
Its rays move around protecting all beings. The two-legged and four-legged animals become equipped with its rays. O agni, you are a strange, brilliant, enlightened all, and greater than Usha. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
Indradi Devas targeted the Dyava-Prithvivi and completed the heavens and the sky by their glory by making wood of water, herbs, palash, etc. used in yajna, etc. from their karma. The devas adorned the abhilashit yajna in their bodies. 
O god and leader Maruto! The man you protect becomes the grace of other gods and the best of sons and grandsons. Let us be your servants in this way. 
O agni! You wander through the earth and the heavens, adorning the gods and human beings and becoming the messengers of the gods in the yagnakamas. We serve you with yajnakarmas and adornment hymns, so may you be in the three realms and give us happiness. 
O god of all! I, with the desire to get food, at this time, praise you for getting the best wealth, which no one has heard before. 
Agni is the best of knowledge, he is the most accomplished doer of protecting the yajnako and the seer of all. In the rites of the hosts, they praise agni as the one who calls the gods. 
The sons of the sages went out to wage a great battle. Just as the calf drinks the milk of the milch cow, so the sages spread all over the earth. 
With thorough discipline, they learn to withdraw the mind from selfish cravings and rivet it on the unsurpassable good of the self. Such persons are said to be in Yog, and are free from all yearning of the senses.
Just as the ocean remains undisturbed by the incessant flow of waters from rivers merging into it, likewise the sage who is unmoved despite the flow of desirable objects all around him attains peace, and not the person who strives to satisfy desires.
The raw meat of the horse that the flies eat, which remains in the knife while cutting it, or in the hands of the one who cuts it, may also be received by the gods. 
Today, who wants to befriend indra, a man of all-time, godly and desire? Which of the hosts who squeeze the Somras praises Indra for the shelter that is great and transcendent when the queen is ignited? 
O mighty Indra! You forced the warrior, who had been thirsty to drink the intoxicating Somras, and hide in the dark. You knew the essence of the vritra, who thought you were without weakness, from his actions. 
The multitudes of beings repeatedly take birth with the advent of Brahma’s day, and are reabsorbed on the arrival of the cosmic night, to manifest again automatically on the advent of the next cosmic day.
Hota performed yajna for Indra Dev. The plant god is peaceful, hundreds of yajna performers, gold leaves, whip-bearing, life-enhancing and fortunate. The host performed a yajna for the botanical god. We worship these two gods with the host Kakubha verses. They worship them with the power of the senses. Bandyas wear cows. Please accept the sacrifice of Vanaspati and Indra Dev. Hosts perform havan for them. (33)
O disease-free person! May you live happily by growing up to the hundred autumns, the hundred springs and the hundred thousand seasons. Indra, Agni, Savita and Jupiter, pleased with the yajna, give the age of 100 years for it. 
The warrior pulls the bow up to the ear. At that time, it seems as if the warrior is his friend. She wants to say something in her ear. She is going to win the pratycha war. She climbs on the bow and makes a very loud noise. The arrow is his friend. She meets him. (40)
When I descend in my personal form deluded persons are unable to recognize me. They do not know the divinity of my personality, as the Supreme Lord of all beings.
O Indra and the wind! Drink this mon in the house of the host who is friendly with the other gods. 
May Bharati Devi with Aditya Ganas and Saraswati Devi with Rudraganas please protect our yajna. Please protect the Ida Devi Yagya invited with the Basus and to take nectar for us. (8)
Indra does not know how to listen to the praises of the praises of the praises and knows the ways to protect the one who praises. Which are the famous charities of Indra? 
Dronacharya, Bheeshma, Jayadratha, Karn, and other brave warriors have already been killed by me. So slay them without being disturbed. Just fight and you will be victorious over your enemies in battle.
I tie both your hands and mouth engaged in acts of abhichar, so that your hands may not sacrifice and chant the mouth mantra. In this way, through the terrible anger of the agni god, I destroy your desire and the deeds that are accomplished by it. (5)
O agni! Let us get your protection and get the desired fruits. O rich godly agni! Let us consume wealth with good children and get food by willing to eat. O unhindered agni! May we find your azar success. 
O Mon! The enemy who hates us or the enemy we hate, you kidnap the life of that enemy. We are full of cows, horsemen, subjects, animals, wealth, and sickness.
I light up feminine wealth through mantras and constellations. The different types of substances in it, Savita Dev should make those who get those substances happy. (12)
Fathers! Please again inspire our mind to do the best. So that we can serve the creatures and the family members. (55)
O black medicine that makes those who come in contact with you like you! You have been created from the earth by devilish Maya. You make this organ affected by leprosy the same color as before. (4)
O Indra! The host King Sudas donated havi to you. He always lived with Dhan Sudas. O Indra! You are the one who does many deeds and showers with desires. O Indra! To bring you to the yagna, I add horses with the name Hari or green in your chariot. O mighty Indra! May you receive our hymns. (6)
O Indra, who drinks Someras! Speak of the nectar of our horses, cows and whites of thousands; Because you have attained nectar. (1)
O agni! We know your three forms in three places and your brightnesses in many places. We know your esoteric and famous names. We know and know that place of origin. 
O aschinikumaro! In the same way that you took out from the water the sage Rebh, who was thrown into the well and trapped by the asuras, similarly, the sage named Vandan was brought out of the water for the darshan of the sun, the kanva sage, who was cast into darkness by the asuras and desirous of light, with the same measures, with the same measures that you saved the sage Kanva, who was cast into darkness by the asuras and desirous of light, come here. 
O praising friends! Come quickly and sit here. You people praise Indra. 
O Rudra! We greet you from the front, from the north direction and from the south direction. Salutations to you in the present in the upper part of the light sky. (4)
O student! You have worn this garment to get fame. By wearing it, you protect the people from the fear of violence. You live for a hundred years for a long time, spreading the son, grandson, etc. and hold the confirmation of wealth. (3)
I utter that speech in the yagyas invoking the gods, which is pleasing to them. We all get refuge in Saraswati, Permission and Bhagdev and call him. (4)
O karyati Indra! When the maruts capable of raining praised you, the stones that were able to squeeze the mon were also happily found. The Maruts without chariots and without horses had defeated the asuras by taking inspiration from Indra. 
O you are well-acclaimed Indra! Come before us by accepting the mantras of the venerable hymn. In praise, we will receive your protection, as well as food, strength, and long life. 
I call for shobhan invocation, full moon beautified and shobhan praise full moon. May this full moon of wisdom listen to my call and signs of reproduction. It was like this with an inkling pulse needle. By doing this, Purnima gives us Vikrant's son and a lot of money. (1)
 O Indra! You are not old. You are going to kill enemies. You are going to win soon. You are very fast paced. You are going to go to the yagna soon. You are going to drive good chariots. You are going to increase water. O hosts! Call such Indra to protect you. 
O God of agni! You are the most praiseworthy of those who call the gods in this yajna present in the minds and are not going to hate us. You should use your body called 'Vishishtakrita' with a purifying and deity-oriented flame. 
O great Indra and Varuna! You both come up with huge defense tools. Let us win by your grace in the battle in which the arms of the enemies shine for the sake of food. 
Among the Indradi devas, Varuna is the one who punishes sinners. This type of Varun is the most outstanding. All substances are under the control of the stunning Varun Dev. Therefore, I get strength from the mantras related to varuna's praise and cure this man with ascites disease caused by the tremendous wrath of Varun Dev. (1)
The chariot of yajna is praised by the rashmis. The chariot of yajna is praised by the horses of rays. They find beauty in the water produced in the water. Brahma is praised for advancing Soma. (14)
Oh, Usha! You bring praiseworthy praises. This period is of the charity and yajna samapti by men with shobhan daan. 
The God who has given money to the people as a defeat of the opposing gambler while gambling and the God who has accepted the passes of the opposing gambler and suppressed it in opposition, that God should accept this desire of ours. May we be happy with the gods of gambling i.e. Gandharvas. (5)
O agni! You meet the gods with welfare horses in space and become the leader of yajna and water. You hold the sun in heaven, the chief and the consuming sun, and make your tongue a harbinger. 
 Soma is the one who fulfills everyone's wish, has special grace, enhances the power of Usha and Sun. Scholars filter it out. It has been prepared by mixing the water of the rivers. To reach Indra's stomach, this word enters the pitcher. 
 O Indra! Who 
Satyaswaroop Ashwinikumaro! You hear my call and come to my yajna to drink the sweet somras. 
Jupiter, who is all over and praiseworthy in all respects, protects both the most powerful and the weak stoes with his power. He is the most famous as a representative of all gods and is the master of all. 
O patient suffering from urinary disease! Just as the water of the ocean, reservoir, etc. is made a way to come out, so I have opened the door of your bladder to take out your stagnant urine. All your urine came out saying words. (8)
O Indra, revered by all people! You are praised by many sages and ritvijas. O destroyer Indra! You give calves to the psalms one by one in many ways. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Sprinkle water to remove the irritation of the sage Atri thrown into the agni by the asuras. May your defense be near us. 
O seeker! Be the best of all of you. Let no one be your enemy and destroy all your enemies. You should be the one who subdues others among your homogeneous people. This is how those who tie the Savita Dev gem should do this to you. May the unarmed gem protect you. (7)
O agni! You must waste the wrath of your enemies and protect us by becoming unbeatable. The enemy returned unsuccessfully in his aim. If the enemies have the wisdom, it will be destroyed. 
O current pulse in the lower part of the body! O pulse located in the upper part of the body! O current pulse in the central part of the body! You also settle down. To stop the flow of blood, all the small and big nadis should be stabilized. (2)
O aschinikumaro! You saved Bhujyu from the troubled sea, gave the bride a son with a golden colour, gave the sage Vimad an aphrodisiac wife and gave the vishwaka sage a son named Vishnapav. 
O saut! I place this defeating herb called Patha around your bed and on top of your bed. Just as a cow dripping milk from the udder runs towards the calf and the water flows downwards, so follow me. (6)
Praise Indra, the guardian of the cows, the son of the yajna and the one who follows the sadhus, in the same way that they know the way to go towards the yajna. 
May the earth that the devas protect while awake or careful, may the earth contain us with honey, wealth and strength. (7)
O son of strength, agni! You are all carried and illuminated by bhaskara and wearing the rays of velocity. At the time when the agni increases due to the hymn, the streams of freshwater fall. 
The animals which are winged, limbed, listed and highly toxic, such invisible poisonous have no work here. You all get out of here together. 
Oh, my friends! Let us be sinless to jupiter, the one who is full of desire, in the same way that he brings wealth from a distant land and gives it to the Son. 
O agni! In which gods and men are purified, you also go to heaven. (17)
I worship divine waters. I should be equipped with the juice of those waters. O agni! I have brought you havi for you. Thus let me contain you sharp. (1)
O Prajapati! The son located in the veins that carry the urine from the intestines of this woman to the bladder, which are located towards both ribs, should strengthen the womb, so that she can deliver in the tenth month. (13)
In Devhuti, break the Jupiter clouds that produce children and get human beings. They destroy the city of Vritra. They face the armies while conquering the enemies. (2)
The same immortal and strong sin as Indra should be attained by the one with whom we hate. O sin! Go to him who is our enemy. (3)
Those who illuminate all the worlds, they live in god water. They are the basic form of Sahasro and the agni devoid of all three heats i.e. physical, divine physical. O Rohit Dev, the criminal of this angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make you staggered attenuated and tie in your loops. (15)
O scorpion Indra! Crush the head of the army of enemies with your wide legs. 
In the south direction, there is a horizontal position. Those hotas have invited the gods living in all directions. O Ashwini Kumaro! Please drink the rasamayi offerings that are being dedicated to the expansion of the yajna. (10)
O most tribal deserts! The host you accept is rich. 
O Earth! You are a huge heart. You should wear water and vegetation. You transmit life to the gods. Which god are you not beneficial to? (39)
Just as the powerful bull shows its force in a herd of animals, Soma reveals his power. Som is splendour and strong. 
May the earth holding the funds give me wealth like cave, gold, gem etc. The earth that provides wealth becomes varadayini, pleasing to us. (44)
The agni that protects people, is always awake and has admirable power by all, has taken birth for the new welfare of others. Those with a brighter body, with a brighter and pureer agni form brighter for the sages because of the aloofness. 
Yajna form Prajapati, famous as Vishwa Atma and caused by all. He became famous and he still grows again and again as the soul of the world. He became prominent among indra adi devas. May this yajna give more money to us servants. (2)
O Agni and Indra! You completely destroy the sins of the host who gives the havy, for both of you, Agni and Inder, have killed Vritra. (1)
O yummy and giving us money Mon! You shower milk and ghee for the Angiragotrian ritvijs. 
In which king Varuna and Som live, all the gods in whom they are merried with food and in whom the Vaishvanar agni enters, they are the only goddesses of water to protect us here. 
O Maruto! At the time you go to war, the Achyuta mountains and vegetation repeatedly make words and the earth trembles. 
O Jativeda Agni! Your food is of three types and three types of usha are your mother. You should join them and give greetings to the gods. O scholarly agni! You become the cause of the pleasures and well-being of the host. 
O thunderbolt Indra! It is true that we know you the giver of food and wealth. 
Those who make sense of the world and the womb of water surround the earth and sky as soon as agni is produced. When the five species of human beings perform the yagna of agni, they also distinguish the strong cloud while going. 
O conscience! Praise you by the praises knowing that the Sun God who destroyed the enemies has come back. Consider them to be the best gems and wealth-sharing providers to human beings and dedicate their greetings and praises. 
O ajshugi jadi! Publish in the waters the Gandharvas who eat algae, mourn all, who are related to war. You kill and defeat all the vampires. (10)
Indra, who defeats the enemy cities, completes the earth with water at the time when he destroys the most powerful enemy and becomes a revolutionary. At that time, we fulfill everyone's desire by knowing the enemy, the detriment, the master of all and the rich. 
A Brahmin's cow is like death while uttering a hunkar. Turning the tail all around, this cow becomes furious. (10)
O wealth-owner Indra! The reins of your horses are wishful. Your gold whip is wishful. O shatkratu! Your chariot, your horses and you yourself are aspirational. 
Oh great! Wishful, very successful and possessive of all! Come to us as water and sit in your place. 
The kind people who perform yajna etc. are happy in heaven etc. by giving up diseases like fever etc. of their body. We should also meet our father, mother and sons in heaven by walking at a simple pace through organs inferior to diseases like leprosy etc. (3)
The gods created the sun, the inspiration of the whole world, as prana. I install such a sun in it for the sake of increasing the life of this celibate. I equip this celibate with the productive sins of diseases, etc., and the eternal life separated from tuberculosis. (7)
Those who cannot be remedied like the words of fire and wind, the army of the strong invader and the divine thunderbolt, should do violence against the enemies with their sharp teeth in the same way as they burn the forests. 
Hey Mon! You pour out your most flamboyant and admirable juice. Let us get wealth by your juices living near the five people. 
O Ashwinikumaro with a meek character! Give us your famous donation by listening to the praises of the valid hymn Agastya. O you who are sordid! May the priest be pleased with you for the welfare of the mighty host by the will of the food. 
Oh my god! You are part of the audience. That is why Rudras have a right over you. You have protected animals through the 24th storm. We set you up here. You are part of Adityagan. That is why the deserts have a right over you. The fetuses were protected by the twenty-fifth storm. We set you up here. Oh my god! You are part of Aditi. Therefore, Pusha Dev has a right over you. You have protected the people's oz from Trinava Stoma. We set you up here by meditating on those stamps. Oh my god! You are all part of the inspiration Savita Dev. You have the right of Jupiter. You have protected all directions from chatushtom stom, we establish you by meditating on that stom. (25)
O Indra! This whole world was engaged in your yajna. You received the somaras squeezed by the conveyor host in the same way that the water comes to a lower place. Indra's adornment, golden and hostile Vajra was never immersed on the mountain. 
O Indra! With anger and in the bad place, push the somers squeezer and go away. Drink this somras given by us. 
O son of strength, the good and visible agni at night! You serve us to the welfare. Remove from us the unness, sin and the evil. 
O Chandra Dev! Use the power to take away the power of yours to take away the happiness, peace and power of those who hate us or those whom we hate. (2)
That God made everyone aware, he created all the riches. Whom all the sages worship. The God to whom we dedicate all the splendor in the yajna indirectly resides in all. (28)
These are the indra and the air with the eloquent hymns! Add your horses to the same chariot and bring them in front of us. The best part of this sweet somras is for you. Be happy to drink it and deliver us from our sins. 
We call the stunning Soma and Agni here with words of praise. They should protect us by giving us the fruits we want. We call Aditi's son, friend and Varuna, the inspired Sun of all, Brahma, the creator of all these gods, and Jupiter, the benefactor of the gods. (4)
O Indra! Our enemies should not have a feeling of violence towards our body. O Swami Indra! You cause our slaughter form to remove away from us. (8)
O Balapati Indra! Just as the weak old man resorts to wood, so let us get you and desire you in the yajna. 
O you are pure, Mon! You sat on a chariot with Indra and received cows stolen by the pangs. O soon to bear fruit! We praise you. You give us huge wealth. O annalyukta mon! All the grain is yours. 
O God of Agni! Those who are coming together to abuse us and those who are uttering a foul voice, those who are becoming the targets of your arrows because of their angry hearts, pierce their hearts with your fiery arrows. (48)
Just as a hard-knit woman wraps a cloth, the night absorbs scattered light. People who are capable of working and wise stop their work in the middle. People drop the bed when Savita Dev, who is restless and does the department of time, rises. 
All the gooseberrys that are around the neck, next to them and in confidential places, all those uncooked gooseberrys and burst. (2)
O men! We compose yajnaveda with Gayatri, Trishtup and Jagati verses Bali prayers. Yajnavedika is visible, Kalyankarini, Urjaswini and Amritvati. (27)
O agni! Protect the host who has given dakshina to the ritwijas, in the same way as the sewn armor protects the body. The host who makes the guests happy by feeding them delicious food and makes the creatures in his home perform yajna, he is as pleasant as heaven. 
O medicine produced according to the season! There may be eight and eighty i.e. eighty-eight who condemn me, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (8)
Anna knows the birth of gods and the secret of human beings. The givers of money open the door of money by getting agni and new offerings. They kill all the enemies. 
O aschinikumaro! I'll call you. You come towards the yajna at a fast pace like the mind when you see the sacrificial effort of that hymn. Who takes your name from the front by holding the fingers of the host in my yagna and cooking the charu. 
Those who are demons who hate the hymn, give them the hot-headed Jupiters suffering to destroy the violent asuras. They should destroy the evil, remove the evil, and make the host free of disease and make it fearless. 
O son of the force and lord of the Vasus, Agni! May the vasishthagotriya sages, who are weak and your stomata, get them quickly through food and protect us through welfare means. 
The gentleman's foster, Indra, killed the son of the Tvashta who considered himself to be brave and extra sharp. Indra called the cows of Vishwarup, the son of Tvashta, and cut off his three ends. 
Those who are the givers of the earth or the true religion who has created heaven and who have produced the blissful expansive waters, do not violence us. Let us serve the same Creator through havya. 
Hey Mon! The juice that your quick drunkards milk with the help of stones, you rain the same juice, violating the enemies. 
This herb named Honey should destroy the venom of the snakes that make the black and pridaku i.e. the creatures cut by them cry and the venom of the poisonous animal called Kankaparva. (1)
Sanjay said: Thus, have I heard this wonderful conversation between Shree Krishna, the son of Vasudev, and Arjun, the noble-hearted son of Pritha. So thrilling is the message that my hair is standing on end.
O hosts! Please ignite the agni with samidha and wake it up. O hosts! Please ask the guest to ignite the agni and give it a boost. (1)
O Indra! Your hand with bent fingers like a curb is huge. With that hand, you give money to the host who squeezes soma. (4)
O sick man! May this divine and air wife, the four directions and the inspiring Savita of all, make you happy in all ways. In the same way, I rescue you from the sins caused by tuberculosis, leprosy, etc., from the sins caused by disease, from the sins arising from the anger of the brothers, from the sedition of the Guru, God, etc., and from the sins of Varuna Dev. I make you sin-free through my mantra. May both The Earth and the Earth be beneficial to you. (4)
May varuna, friends and agnis, who prevent sorrow and be true, give us thousands of money.  May those happy Gods give us praiseworthy and honorable things and fulfill our desires by listening to our praise. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You were taken by chariot to Shundyuv, the daughter of Purumitra, to marry Vimad. You came when you were called by Vadrimati and you gave a glorious glory to that wisdom. 
O God of agni! You are Aditi to the havyadata. You would have been, you are going to grow from bharti and praise. You are going to grow from Bharti and praises. You are able to donate land and wealth with unlimited periods. O guardian of wealth, you are the Vrithrahanta and Saraswati. 
Oh my god! Remove all the yakshas, demons and demons from me. We make all the suffering caused by yakshas, demons and vampires ineffective by you. (8)
The agni is ignited for the sake of the diviner. They rise upwards in the morning with a happy mind. The stunning force of the ignited agni is visible. Thus the great gods are free from the tama. 
O bright Mon! You are the means of water rain and you know the world. These five directions form the basis for you. You hold the world and the earth, and the sun expands your light. 
The substances brought by killing the enemies and the substances brought by winning are ours. Truth, glory, brahma, heaven, animals, children and all heroic men are ours. (30)
 O Mon! You give us hundreds of cows and horses. You are able to nurture them all. Please make us lucky. 
I bind to me knowing his heart and seeing his form. I don't steal. I myself, kneading your hair and freeing you from the traps of Varuna. (57)
 O Indra 
No woman is more fortunate than my wife and no one is more happy and better child. No woman is more happy than her husband. (6)
O Indra! Bear the havy for those who cross both this world and the hereafter. Give strength to the Stota Brahmin who is difficult to get food. (11)
O leader Maruto! Climb on the chariot, with a sachron-capable horse, rain-bearing and naveled of the year, and come near the havya as soon as the hawk bird comes. 
O Mon! You are holy. Please make us rich and as successful as heroes. 
The hymn of Indra, who is praised by Indra, who is sitting in the chariot, the devotee of many types of deeds and powerful, from whom the host wishes to get happiness, he gets Indra and controls him. (5)
O Indra! Just as the wind waits for the horses of his name Appointed, so too do you also add the horses named Hari to the chariot and after waiting for a few moments, come to us and drink the som given by us. We give som to your enjoyment by uttering the word swaha. 
O Indra! Just as you have placed the sun in the sky for the sight of all, so inspire the heroes to follow the charioteered king Asmati. 
O agni! You are young. Listen to our speechful worships. You protect us, hosts and our generations. (52)
O death! Salutations to the messenger who speaks the words of your favor and to the one who describes the defeat. O death! Salutations to your gracious intellect and to the evil intellect that takes care of you. (2)
O men! Start the full praise related to the Vaishvanar agni and the beloved principle. The upper parts of the body of that speech are wide. While praising that Vaishvanar agni, we become the masters of wealth in the struggles. (2)
As they approached this bull, the humans inspired it to roar and urinated on it in the middle of the war. With the help of this bull, Mudgal won hundreds and thousands of cows that had a good diet. 
O Indra! The man you protected lives in a house with many horses and gets the first to sing. Just as the moving streams fill the sea in all directions, so you also equip the man you protected by you with a variety of wealth. 
Just as the old cow, irrigated with semen, produces a child quickly, so the arinity that destroys sorrow and protects itself produces agni. Fire originated in ancient times from both the aranis, similar to the parents, so are their sons. The araniform cow which is born on the Shami tree is discovered. 
O courageous Indra! By your grace we will find a god like you effortlessly. We will praise Him, ask Him, and He will surely give us the property we want. Just as horses rotate the arrows of both the wheels of the chariot, so they will inspire wealth towards us. 
O host! The agni which is illuminated in the form of gods among the gods, the invoked primitives are entered into the human beings and who take our vow to the gods, you serve the same agni by the praises. 
O night! Give usha to protect all of us praisors and animals, sons, friends etc. O Vibhavari! May you give us all the day and receive the day back to you. (7)
In your husband's house, you should be aware of the agni of agni. Increase things for your children. You kept speaking till you complete your age. (21)
The one who knows the seven things living near the vasha cow and the seven things living far away and knows the head of the yajna, he should accept the donation of the vasha cow. (2)
O Arvan! You go up to the ultimate place. Meet your parents. May the gods associated with the host gods be pleased to give us immense glory. (24)
O father! While sitting in the south direction of the altar with your knees shrinking, praise our Havi. Don't indulge in violence because of any of our crimes, big or small. It is not impossible to commit crime from us due to human nature. (52)
I praise the agni of delight, the one who calls the gods, the ritwij, the strange light, and the radiant wealth. Fire listen to my praise. 
O unhindered agni! Your radiant and huge rashmis display the same power as a working horse. 
O agni! Just as Trirune, who had heard many praises of us with many children, gladly asked us to accept various things with a heart, so did the Trisadsu, who wished for the most innovative praises of you who deserved your great praise. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Come up with the same measures by which you protected the age of drinking and praised, the bud that received the wife, and the horseless earth. 
I free you from your patriarchy, not from your husband. I bind you well with my husband. O Giver Indra! Please make this bride with good sons and a lucky daughter. (18)
O agni! You make me rich in your radiance, children and age. Indra, along with devgans and sages, knows me to serve you. (15)
We praise the maruts inspired by Indra, approved by Varuna, who pervaded the path of the sun and the enemy. O scholarly gentleman! For the same Indra's son Maruts, we prepare for the yagna. 
O Indra and Varuna! The person who takes food in the form of a week and makes you brothers for friendship destroys his sins. He is famous for his great defense by destroying enemies in war. 
Goddess Joshili, Dhandharini and Indra increase the age of Dev. We worship gods. We put our karna power and our life power in Indra Dev. They hold money for us. They give us money. Perform host yajna for them. (38)
Ashwini kumars, including saraswati etc. three goddesses, took force in the navel in the middle part of Indra Dev. The Ashshvinikumars established vision in indra dev's eyes. Hold money for us. Those interested in money should please perform a welfare yagna for him. (54)
The soothing and radiant Indra can see with his eyes even when his beloved Som is hidden in his heart. 
O agni! You lead us to a good path and give us money. You make us good scholars. You remove the evils from us. We salute you again and again. We pray for you again and again. Swaha for you. You take us on the right track. You give us money. (43)
Indra, who is very powerful and doing various things, gives dakshina to the host among the people. O thunderbolt Indra! You destroy sin by the same dakshina. O enemies Indra! From the same south you give wealth and children to the psalms. 
O Indra! Who will give us the stome that can please you? Which horse will bring you to me? You come to hear my stom. You are theorem, I will succeed in pleasing you with the divines. (3)
O many animals and wealthy Indra! Those who enjoy the pleasures you have given increase your strength to you and your sacrifices to a greater extent. Indra's charity is beneficial. 
In their arms that do good to human beings, the deserts hold infinite objects of welfare. On their breasts, they adorn the golden ornaments with a radiant and clear appearance, white garlands on their shoulders, stabs on the arms like thunderbolts and the wings of birds. 
The wood named Parush should make these enemies hard i.e. motionless and the wood named The Bride should kill them with its blows. Like the arrows that break from the large net, these enemies should also break quickly. (4)
A person who can handle it should be appointed for the pledge. For the plan, the announcer should appoint those who remain silent for the dispute decision, the one who hurts the ostentation for the pluralist, the harpist for glory, the drummer for the fierce voice, the conch player for a sound, the forest guard for the forest protection, the forest guard to protect other forests. (19)
The king of beings and the habitat of human beings, agni has been hidden by the enemies in the people. Let the hymns of the tree with atrigotra light the agni and become the object of our blasphemous condemnation. 
O agni! You are always young, earnest and brilliant. We are praising you with the yajna-endowments and the wise ones. You sit here. 
O life to many types of herbs and crops produced by Atharva Maharishi, by Angira Maharishi, by devas and by human beings! You are the one who pleases by providing rainwater. (16)
Let us remain at the command of the yagyakar Savita Dev and be free from crime against Aditi Devi and hold all the wealth. 
Covered with grass, that is, wearing mats, the school is going to give rest to the creatures of the world like night. O school! You are situated on earth like the screams of the elephant's feet. (17)
Eleven to three times that is, thirty-three gods, in three groups, make Jupiter with riches as priests and remain in the discipline of the gods. May the gods please protect us with their divine power. (11)
O God of Agni! Get the monsters your flames three times. That is, agni burn them three times in the morning, afternoon and evening. Whoever destroys my true sacrifice with deceit, take him and destroy him with his flames in front of me. (11)
Just as the day-making rays of the sun are created, so are the waves of raja, mitra and veer soma are formed. Just as the Son who strives through yajnakarma does not defeat the Father, so you should never defeat this people. 
O host couple! We start the yajna by saluting the supreme power. We perform this yajna with specific verses. Please this worship of ours to reach the path of Savita Dev. May the gods sitting in the divine abode, the sons of immortality, please listen to these praises of ours. (5)
The leader, Marudgana, goes down the wheels of his chariot in the yagyashala with somras built near the pond of the present Sharyanavat place in the Arjik country. 
They should get the sorrows with contaminated names for this evil enemy, the objections to the abdominal diseases growing like a pitcher, the contaminated diseases of the body and the deadly diseases. (8)
At the time when the sun grieved rajarshi named Etash, the horse, who were crooked and as fast as the wind, carried the sage Kutsa, the son of Arjuna. Indra, who performed various deeds, went to attack the sun by hiding on the rays and the undefeated sun. 
Vishwakarma Dev has been installed in the south direction. Vishwakarma Dev Rathwan, senani, gram rakshak, leading and Maneka and Sahajanya are his apsaras. Monsters are their weapons. May Vishwakarma Dev protect us. May agni give us happiness. May the agni hold in your jaws to all those who hate us and those whom we hate. (16)
O king! Call Ashwinikumar, both friends Varuna, Vishwe Dev and Marut aap to enter the kingdom. Put your mind in donating money. After this, you should provide proper money to the servants while remaining undefeated from the enemies. (4)
O act! I will cut off your neck and legs. You run away from here. May Indra and Agni, who protect the people, protect us. (21)
O agni! Bring back the knowledge and flesh of this man that has been destroyed, bring it back into his body. It should be as strong as the seedling of Somalata and its limbs should be complete. (12)
O Shataudana Gau! May your tail, your hair, your ann and your udder always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (22)
The green and radiant Somas have been living in the Dashapavitra from the old births, leaving for the gods. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! On hearing our praises, you had committed violence against his attendant demons, etc., from birth, by killing the vritra, who had obstructed the gods, with a thunderbolt. O Indra! In this war, you break the head of a dasa named Namuchi with the desire to give pleasure to Me Manu. 
Aditi Yen-Ken, let us, animals, humans, cows and our offspring be given rudra-related herbs. 
In these rice, which is thinner, but more shining, people have taken seven such rice as animals. It is worth consuming by thirty-three gods. May this odan bring us to heaven. (16)
In the journey of the hereafter, the sages who went from air to the full Uttarayan path had crossed the bad paths. He had also crossed death twenty-one times. (29)
O agni! You destroy the sharpness of the monsters around by your fast. Destroy the force and brightness of the lum monsters. 
O god of the most young and radiant agni! You are ignited by the flood, and give us wealth and burn by your huge rays. O cleansing agni! You burn. 
O hosts! The agni goes to your place while wishing for the gods. Indra alone would have come with the Rudras to come quickly to your yajna. Praise is also able to fetch wealth from these godless gods. You drink somras for your protector gods. 
I put all the women who are sleeping in the courtyard or on the bed or the women who are used to sleeping in the swing etc. and have a good smell. (3)
Other people make Tirodha a support for life. He who knows this removes everyone's sins and becomes the one who supports everyone's life. (12)
Recognize all those herbs and bring them to the healing of our body. O Maruto! We re-fix the obstacle points of the people in such a way that the patient's disease is removed. 
O human beings! Indra, who gives enough food to the one who squeezes and cooks charu, and which is certainly true, all of us should become the masters of such indra's beloved and masters of the best heroes. (18)
The oshadhi who is the queen of Som is Bahuguna. Has hundreds of fantastic properties. Medicines are the ones that give desired happiness. They are capable of giving power to the heart. Please make the medicinal man semen. (93)
Where are the agnis which are found in the yajnashala, which are pleased to be found in the yajnashala, which are worshipped and ignited and for which the animals are produced? 
O Indra! Give us a very bright force. Let us remove from us many enemies of the Stota people, give us the best wealth through our best intellects and protect us to enjoy wealth. 
O agni! You get the increase as soon as you are born immediately. You wear the yajna. You are the forward. When the swaha tax is dedicated, you accept it. You go ahead. You do our job. By your grace, may the Gods please accept our desire soon. (11)
O You who donate so much, Maruto! You must have all your power. O vibrators! Express your anger like an arrow against the enemy who hates the sages and is angry. 
The rope tied in the neck of a horse, tied to the feet and inserted into the mouth as a rein may all these ropes and the grass that falls in its mouth be available to the gods. 
The agni that hides in the desert without water from a very distant country and looks very beautiful, that agni should free us from demons, vampires etc. (3)
O Samidha! May the sun be pleased to protect you. O Kush! May the sun be pleased to protect you. Let both Samidha and Kush be both arms of Savita Dev, we are laying the seat made of the hair of the host sheep. We lay these asanas for the gods so that the gods can sit happily. Please come and sit on the seat by coming to Vasu, Rudra and Aditya. (5)
The speech given to us by the sages who ignite the agni, the stopping of ignorance and spreading everywhere in the form of a word takes a great form. The daughter of the sun thinks of the food of the voice-god Indra, etc., without decay and in the form of nectar near the gods. 
There are twelve peripheries, one chakra and three navels. Who knows this? Three hundred and sixty are engaged in a circle fickle hey. 
Indra's abdomen, which is always ready to drink somras, is as wide as the sea. Just as the water of the tongue never dries up, so does the somras in indra's abdomen never dry up. 
Our hymn is full of yajna and ghrit and full of humility. We serve the fire through this hymn until they are satisfied. Fire helps in completing the divine offering. Accepting our word will not destroy the fire. Just as Matrishva brought the fire for Manu's sake from afar and burned it, so should the fire come into our yajna from a distant land. 
I destroy a demon named Nihsala, higher than the shawl tree. She is afraid, defeating, speaking harsh words and willing to eat me. I destroy all the granddaughters of the sinful planet called Chand, who are going to be angry with me. (1)
The devotees, the host and the meritorious adhwaryu, the controller of all and the inspirational agni of water, are well lit up by the hapishe of the interiors for the use of the yajna. 
In ancient times, the gods also climbed the bed and touched the limbs of their wives with their limbs. O woman! You should be a child living with your husband just like Surya. (32)
While bringing the mon, the sheen bird spoke from heaven facing downwards. Som's keepers snatched som from him. The somashak named Krishnanu, who dropped the arrow, climbed the string on the bow, then the sheen bird brought the som at a fast speed like the mind. 
Indra had wrapped the sky and earth like skin. This is the great feat of Indra. (2)
You are the best knower. You know the ancestors well. You understand the moving cycle of the world. Those ancestors who are sitting on the seat of Kush, those ancestors who drink Swadhamaya Somras, those ancestors should be pleased to come here. (56)
The man with whips and whips tied the parts of the chariot with a leather rope and started moving around happily. He saved many people and protected many cows.
I call Indra for sompan in the morning in each yagna. 
These cruel and hateful persons, the vile and vicious of humankind, I constantly hurl into the wombs of those with similar demoniac natures in the cycle of rebirth in the material world. These ignorant souls take birth again and again in demoniac wombs. Failing to reach me, O Arjun, they gradually sink to the most abominable type of existence.
O Indra! Come close to our Somers with the help of your long-haired horses. We call you when Somers nichur goes. 
O adhwaryujano! Bring soma for indra who destroyed and corrupted the ancient hundred cities of Sambar Asura with thunderbolt and who killed a hundred thousand sons of Varchi and threw them down on the earth simultaneously. 
O agni! The godly poison given by the demons becomes poison and the monsters should be cut off and offered to the agni. Let the sun hand these monsters over to the violent. Get the assortment of monsters. 
O lord, Indra, worshipped by praises and blessed with truth! You hear our praises and come to our annapurna yagnas with the help of your horses for the sake of protecting us. 
O Indra! To bring a happy, milch, thick and hard cow with an angry mind. O Indra, who speaks quickly and quickly, called by the Bahujans! I praise you every day. 
 O Mon! You have produced all the medicines present in the earth. You have created water. You have produced cows. You have spread the sky. You have removed darkness. 
We, who receive the khuch in our hands, call the agni of the adornment, the bright, the bright, the praiseworthy of human beings and the unsung agni. 
O men! This river is flowing with stones. Heroically cross this river. Put your sins in this river. After this we achieve the prophylactic velocities. (26)
O Deeptiman, the agni that calls the gods and has many flames! You, as you ignite with other agnis, listen to the hymn of man, which the psalms speak like a mamta woman and offer you like ghee. 
Hey Aditya! Let's come running to the living. O adithyas who hear the call! Come before our death. 
Udumbar Mani bless me with son, grandson, etc. and money in the form of gold and silver. Inspired by Indra, Udumbar Mani came close to me with special radiance. (7)
Those who give birth to the world like the havanyukt yajna are pleased with the desertion and give wealth in such a way that the clouds rain drops of water. I have not been able to truly worship the great quality of the Maruts. I have not even praised the maruts for their splendour. 
 O Indra! You know the power of all. You are extremely brave, stubborn and fierce. You are born with force. You are Mahavir and Gopalak. Please sit in the victorious chariot. 
 O Indra! You are great. You spread paradise and earth. You made the sun shine with light. You gave shelter to the sakal bhuvanas. We present somers to you. 
O You, being glorious and holy, Mon! Give us a promise that is worth thousands and holy by wisdom. 
We offer prayers with mantras in this part for the four gods like Indra, Yama etc. who protect the east and never die. He is the swami of all beings. (1)
Sifting, Som goes towards the Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair as his stream and makes a variety of words in front of the hymn. 
When this goat is brought in front of the powerful horse, the host provides sweet food (Purodash) to the goat along with the playful horse. Purodash is dear to everyone and is found to be famous by giving the best part of it. (26)
O all knowing Agni! Just as the sailor takes the passengers across the river with the help of a boat, so so you help us overcome all sins. O agni! By accepting our praises like Atri,you become famous as our body protectors. 
O following goddess Trayamana! Give me the god named Vishwajit. Hey all the conquerors! Protect our two-legged sons, grandsons, etc. and all the four-legs. (2)
Obstruct the agni god fever. Strong, gentle, holy and efficient varan, velvy, kush and ignited samidhas like stone should be febrile-mongering. (1)
O agni! You come, you are widespread everywhere. We light you with mind, ghee. You are a lovely and golden beauty. You go again and again. You are a beneficial and totally acceptable God. (24)
O men willing to grow hairstyles! Earlier, your hair was able to measure in the fingers (in the form of two fingers, four fingers, etc.). After this, both of them spread their hands and became measureable. O man! Grow around your head like a grass called a hair nut. (2)
Joe Indra! By his best policy, the kings of Turvash and Yadu were brought from afar, let those young Indras be our friends. 
 O Indra! You are great, diabolical and respected. Please come to the yajna with your strength. Who can stop you from coming to the yagna with a chariot? You search for the enemy just as a drunk elephant searches for its enemy. 
O woman! Whoever fascinates you in the state of demonic dream or sleep and goes to you and wants to kill your child, we drive him away from here. 
 O Indra! You grew up to your potential. You are powerful, enemies of the wicked and give them expenses. You are the operator of grazing. We bow down to him 
Varun, a friend and Aryama are skilled leaders. Let them take us away from sin. May the lord of the people save us from all sins and enemies. 
Which is the forest and tree that executed the dyava-prithvivi? O scholars! Ask yourself, on whom does God hold the eyebrows? 
May Indra complete that yajna with Ritvij and all the gods. (4)
Addressing the opposing gambler, it is being said- O gambler! You have written the digits properly in your feet. Yet I will win you. I will win you in a place where points are withheld. Just as the wolf rubs the sheep, so I will destroy your bet. (5)
All three goddesses hold the age for Indra Dev. They increase the foster Indra Dev. We worship them with worldly verses. We offer our age and our sense power to them. Hosts perform yajna for them. (41)
 O hosts! Indra animals etc. have many types of wealth. They give a lot of money to those who praise them. You should worship Indra, who gives the best wealth, in every way. 
Our priest hails from the West and is present before us. Residents of the east have built krita. O priest! You destroy that. (6)
Let the vast jhuloka and earth irrigate this yajna with juice and nourish us and make us perfect by nourishing it. 
Dripping Somdev wants a chariot to come to our yagna, fulfills our desires and expresses words. 
O Indra and Mon! You come with the help of quick-moving horses. You destroy the evil and sabotaging monsters. The demon of rape should not get happiness. He can kill us at some point of time because of malice. 
 O Mon! Your voice is like the waves of the sea. You flow at the same speed as the sea. Please inspire holy speech. 
I invoke the agni that takes place through the mouth through hymns which are capable of giving fruits, such as offspring, etc. O agni worthy of yajnakarma! You sit and do with other gods and do the deeds done by the grandson. You awaken us as the masters of wealth and the creators of all. 
O Indra! Your friend becomes a horseman, a chariot-wallah, a gowala and a beauté. He gets the money that is quick to be received and goes to the assembly, creating happiness for all. 
O teacher! Perform the yajna on heaven and earth by aiming at the chariot made of the sarrup part, made of a firm part of vegetation, with the speed of water, covered with cow's leather and like indra's thunderbolt. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! You are quick to move and are skilled in healing. This vatsa of yours is not tied by beads. You go close to him who has havi. (1)
Has the glorious agni accepted our praises and our glory? Have we done the work of the circulation of agni? Who knows these things? The agni comes from calling affectionately like a friend. Let this praise and our heart go to the food gods. 
 O hosts! Soma is the destroyer of the wicked. You invite them. You respect the yajna and express the feeling of welfare of all. 
Establish a consensus with Usha's husband Vachaspati i.e. the swami of speech and with vachaspati Usha Devi's husband. (6)
Fire ignites and sounds like a sound made by a hungry horse to the grass. Simulate the air, which ignites more. Their black smoke becomes swantr. (62)
O air! The bright, holy and bright mons go to the fire invocation to make you happy and desires to rain water. The very frightened and forceless host praises you for driving away the yagyaadi vighkars. We are possessed of religion in the form of a religion, so protect us from all your fears. 
O Rudra Dev! You are a nuisance. You are pure format. You make us lucky. Hello to you. Thousands of your weapons are our interests. Those weapons fall on others (enemies). (52)
O Indra, who is glad to be glad of Sompan and gives us a group of gogroups! Give us to assume unlimited wealth in both your hands. Make us wise and give us wealth. 
O Som and Rudra! Drive away the disease that is contained in our home and drive away from us by obstructing poverty. We have welfare food. 
O lord-of-the-box Indra! The bright dyava-prithvivi worships your uninterrupted force. 
He who knows this is a honey man, Madhu conquers the purnalokas and enjoys honey-like food. (23)
O Pawman Mon! You give more juice. O Sun-like revered Mon! You go to Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. O Mon, holy by many and squeezed with the help of stones by the ritwijas! You go to the great wars to gain wealth. 
O Sun God! With the happiness, peace and power of you, the removing power, remove the happiness, peace and power of those who hate us or those whom we hate. (2)
The shining ushas are getting excited in the west direction after illuminating all beings with their brightness. They awaken all living beings to be inclined in their respective work and listen to the speech-efficient people. 
O Kush! You should be the place for our ancestors to sit. (68)
O Indra! Our teachers squeeze the sweet somras for you with the help of stones. Drink it with delight. 
 O Indra! You deserve Mon. May this somerasa be satiating for you. This someras is the form of food. You come to this somerasa physically. 
Hey Ritvijo! Worship and praise you friends and those who see Varuna with great, bright, seeing everyone even while far away, born in the seed of gods, who have knowledge of the world and greet the sun like the son of heaven and worship them with yajna etc. 
We, who want to protect, speak this sukta. Hello to this Rudra. Listen to this call of ours with the Rudra Maruts. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky respect this prayer of ours. 
Agni has created Aj (goat). From that he has been able to see further. From that, the gods find divinity and from the same cloud the hosts get heaven. You follow the wild sharabh (animal). You move in that direction. You should be angry with Sharabh and those whom we hate. (51)
O dying man! You should take this gold, which your father had worn before. O man! Beautify your father's right hand as you go to heaven. (56)
Money is favored. In the yajna, we wish you again and again. You bless us with plenty of wealth. We love money. We perform yajna in the best way for money. (56)
The son of Kshatriya jati should worship his father and should be engaged in following dharma to get good welfare. O Varuna! By showing many places, you create worldly creatures. (8)
On the aditya tree on which the water-eating rays sit like birds at night and give light to the world in the morning, scholars describe that the fruit of that spinach sun is juiced. He who does not know the spinach sun cannot find this fruit. 
Do not renounce Raja, Yagya, Murdha i.e. Shish and special dharmas. (2)
O God! The goats pull the axis of your chariot forward. You are friends of all the priests, those who are very born and are not going to be lost in your own right. 
 O Indra! You are vajradhari and veer. Just as rivers reach the sea and increase it, so our praise reaches you and increases your fame. 
O wishing, O God, and the som who loves us! You protect us and plunge us into the tabernacle from the intoxicating stream. 
I preach to the person who is served by gods and human beings. I make whomSoever I want to be powerful, stotha, sage and wise. 
Through the wide heavens between the earth and the earth, we receive this school of yours. The creation power of space and earth is located in your stomach. (15)
O school! We surround you with the cold water of the Himalayas in such a way that the newborn surrounds the womb and the algae water. O school! You become cold water for us. By listening to our prayers, agni should be a medicine to save our homes from burning. (3)
O agni! The woods that your flame eats and which it crosses, all those woods should be like ghee to you. 
May the earth, which holds human beings of many dharmas and many languages, cry out thousands of streams of wealth for me like a firm dhenu. (45)
Oh, my friends! Go to the cow that gives milky food to immortalize the tolerant, independent, fast and fast maruts and comes with pleasing rainwaters. 
Indra's land is going to provide cows. It should be like a cooked branch for the host giving the havi. (4)
O agni! Churning work shows you to be in the aranny. Just as the horse carries the rider, so do you behave. O airlike all-round agni! You give food and house. You walk crooked like a horse as soon as you are born. 
O bamboo! You stand as the pillar of this school without hindrance and become powerful and drive our enemies away from here. O school! Do not be violent with those who live in your residences. May we live for a hundred years with desired sons and grandsons. (6)
O Indra! At that time you made the cows of raw age milch and offered the sun to Dulok. This stotao! Just as somras are magnified by the sammantras, so increase Indra by praises. Sing a detailed and loving sammantra to Indra worthy of praise. 
The anti-dynastic sages, the doers of the nine- and ten-month-long yagnas, had worshipped Indra through hymns by squeezing som. Praising, the Angirathian sages had redeemed the go group hidden by the asuras. 
Praise the agni that moves against the enemies. Worship the light agni, which knows all beings, who know all beings, the smokeless ones everywhere and the unhindered flame by demons. 
Some yogis worship the celestial gods with material offerings unto them. Others worship perfectly who offer the self as sacrifice in the fire of the Supreme Truth.
O agni extinguished by the housekeeper! May you be the giver of happiness in the evening and in the morning. O agni that gives wealth! You provide growth. May we live for a hundred years, lighting you up by eve. (4)
This kush with more roots is located in the area with more water. Kush, raised upwards on earth, is said to calm anger. (2)
 O agni! You are everywhere travelling and strong. Your host sons are eager to bring havi to you. You accept their sacrifices. You stop the destruction of energy. We worship you first in the yajna. You grow with ghee. 
The rays of the sun do not cross the vast earth and the wind also does not disperse the rain while being able to. Friends and Varuna appear and light up in such a way that they can illuminate the agni forest. 
Just as the hawk moves swiftly towards his nest, so I run towards the rich and unbeatable Indra by worshipping him with the best of praises. The Stotagans invoke Indra when war breaks out with the enemies. 
The night turns away from his sister Usha. The black night leaves way for the bright day. O Ashwanikumaro, lord of the horse and gorup wealth! We call you. You remove the enemies from us day and night. 
O agni! You invite praiseworthy friends, Varuna, Indra, Agni, Aryama, Aditi and Vishnu from heaven and earth to our yajna. May Saraswati and The Desert be pleased with the hosts. 
O Indra! You have made weak cows milch by your actions, wisdom and power, built gates in the mountain for the cows to go out, and met the Angiragotrian sages and freed them from the circle. 
O mortal of immense glory and most powerful! May your force protect the avyamrut. You are able to have knowledge of the regular yajna and be ignited like agni. Protect us from your enemies. 
We want to praise the leader of the yagnas, the sharp flames and the mighty agni. 
Oh, God! You are our brother. May you give happiness to us who pray. Do not slow down the speed of your chariot while coming to our yagna. Let us not be disturbed by you brothers. 
Hey Ritvijo! Serve by the treaty of agni as dear as the guest, wake them up by the awfulness. Perform havan of the havans in the ignited agni. 
O shankhpushpi called jadi! You are in front of Soma for the sake of vashikaran. You are also in front of the sun, the motivator of all. What is the benefit of saying more, you are in front of all the gods. I praise you for attracting my husband towards me. (3)
Just as barley is taken out of the grain kernels, Jupiter pulled out of the mountain the cows that give welfare milk, the daily walker, the swellable, the adornment and the appreciably. 
We measure this cremation ground well, so that we do not get another cremation work in the middle before a hundred years. (44)
Take the mantra or medicine that your mother, your father, your brother or your sister has decided to use for you. I make you live to old age. (5)
O O O! May You conquer all the worlds. May You fully satisfy all our desires. While rotating the kalchi, remove the husband and wife odan and place it in the vessel. (36)
The meritorious, being praiseworthy and holy from all around, goes from Dashapavitra to the black leather of the deer by destroying the enemies. 
Salutations to the eldest. Salutations to the junior. Salutations to the ancestor. Salutations to the present. Bow to medium. Salutations to the unborn. Salutations for the heinous and awakened. (32)
O Indra worthy of praise by the leaders of the yajna! You killed many enemies together with the Maruts in the battle. O Indra, lord of the aschas called Hari! You put the bandits, the chumuri and the dhuni to sleep with your thunderbolt for the welfare of the devil. 
It is part of the juice water and ghee of herbs. Upanaya is part of devas. Indra wore a huge body like a mountain for the eating of Soma i.e. to drink Someras. (5)
O salt! If you are as powerful as six bulls, then produce children from this cow, otherwise you will be considered powerless. (6)
O Richter! The evil man who hides from us and disturbs our mind, he should wear the traps of Varuna, who is hostile to enemy sinners. O Maruto! Kill the man who wants to kill us with your weapon. (2)
Our enemies should be inferior to the power of hands. We will make their organs joyless. O Indra! After this, we should divide the wealth of those enemies by your grace and get it. (3)
 O Mon! You are archaic. Hosts invoke you. The host is praising for you. They are inaugurating 
I am the all-devouring Death, and I am the origin of those things that are yet to be. Amongst feminine qualities I am fame, prosperity, fine speech, memory, intelligence, courage, and forgiveness.
Oh my friend and Varun! The water that you receive well from Aditya, which you receive from aditya with your fast, you give us from all sides. We see the deer form of both of you by performing yajnaadi, by somras and by intrusive intrices in knowledge. 
I first praise Dyava and Prithvi for advertising the Ashwinikumars. When the Ashchinikumaras come to the yagna, I praise the established, bright and soothing fire. O aschinikumaro! To get your winning part in the struggle, come close to us with the same measures with which you come and blow the conch shell. 
Those who invoke the gods, the scholars, the shining, the adorned, the strong, the non-violent fast and the best of wisdom, the abode-giver, the one who feeds on countless people, and the one with pure flames, sit well in the house of the agni. 
O Vasa Gau! First of all, you provide waters as harness. After this, it makes the land fertile and gives us food. Thirdly, you give the nation the power of power. (8)
O aschinikumaro! Add the chariot that carries you to this yajna well in this yajna, which is fast, and bring us to this yajna, and come here. O annaswamio! Drink our somras. 
O agni! Give us the wealth of cows, etc., and the money desired by many, which is full of sons and grandsons with adornment and fame. 
Salutations to Sharva four times and Bhava eight times. O Pashupati! Greet you ten times. O Pashupati! Five animals of different jatis i.e. cows, horses, men, goats and sheep are yours. Protect these. (9)
All rivers should take away the poison of sapo with their water. A snake named Tirshchiraji was destroyed and a snake named Pridaku was grinded. (20)
O Indra and Vishnu increased by Som! You are rich in ghee and food. You are going to be greeted with salutations by the hosts who consume the best part of the Mon. You are the base of the mon as the ocean and the kalash. You give us the money. 
 O Indra! As always, come to give a group of cows, a group of horses and a fruitful wealth. 
Hey Mon! You are going to possess the welfare, the benevolent and the stabbing fast in the struggle. You are great, poet, admirer of hymns, special seers and awakenings of all. You enter the characters named Chamu in the yajna. 
Rudraputra Marut, who is equal to the heavens, and draws the world, the abodes of the cloud, do the work of his authority. Indra, Varuna, Mitra and Aryama have seen all of them with these ashwarood gods. 
Hey Mon! Make our mind motivated to be well-being, efficient and perform yajnakarma. You are great, so when you are, let the stota delight in your friendship in the same way that the cows are happy with the grass. 
 O hosts! Indra is the one who produces the young woman Usha, the creator of the lunar rays and the gopalak. They wish to get cow's milk as nutritious food. Indra is capable of doing everything. 
To practice Yog, one should make an āsan (seat) in a sanctified place, by placing kuśh grass, deer skin, and a cloth, one over the other. The āsan should be neither too high nor too low.
Shwet, Naudhasa, Saptarshi and King Soma followed him. (22)
In that war, we increase Jupiter, who roars like a lion, with our best intellects. (9)
O enemy armies! Jupiter Dev, bond you through these thrown loops. Everyone's motivator Savita Dev should bond with you. Friends and Aryama Dev bond with you. May Bhag and Ashwinikumar bond with you. (1)
Just as the wind blows dust from the earth and the clouds in the sky, in the same way, the force of mantras removes all my sins. (13)
O Maruto! The sage or king you employ in the yagnakarma is not defeated or killed by others. He does not fade, he does not suffer, nor can he be hindered. His money and defense are also never exhausted. 
The deity under whose influence the air moves according to the seasons and the seas are affected, who insults the sun full of anger or does violence to the learned Brahmin, O Rohit Dev! Weaken that brahmaghati by staggering and put it in bondage. (2)
The pole of the Vaishnavar agni, the light that is faster than the mind and the light that shows the way to happiness is hidden within the walking beings. All the gods go in front of Vaishvanar, the principal of the yajna, with one desire and one opinion. 
The one who abuses such a learned vratchari is the culprit of Brihat, Rathantar, Aditya and Vishwa Devs. (4)
Let the praise of the bright and all desires go from us to the gods like a fast and cultured chariot. 
For Indra, this complete kalash is filled with Som rasa. Just as the sprinkler of water fills the mashak with water, so Adhwaryu squeezes someras for Indra to drink. These Soms go towards Indra for Indra's happiness. (3)
Reach out to Varuna Mitra, Bhaga and Aditi with the most pleasant praises, havans, etc. Listen to our praises of the five air seekers, the unspeakable, the propagators and the base of happiness, the seekers, etc. in space. 
O fire! You do the messengers of the gods, so call the gods who desire to have the desire of heaven and sit on the kushas that are laid with them. 
Hosts irrigate the pravahman somerus. In the protection of heaven and earth, the influence of Soma is very fast. He is beautiful. (21)
Among those who call upon Indra and Agni by money and praise, we, the people of Nabhakgotri, who wish to serve, will take our people along with them and defeat the enemies and adopt those who praise them. Let Indra and Agni destroy all enemies. 
Yami began to say, "The creator, the auspicious motivator and the omnipotent Prajapati had made us husband and wife in the womb itself. No one opposes prajapati's work. We know that we are a couple. 
O Goddess of earth! Please be worthy of you. Please provide you the best accommodation. You give us the happiness you want. Please be very detailed. (13)
O aschinikumaro! Your great defense work is the cause of happiness. O praise! You made the diseased men with healthy bodies. The multi-buddhist Ghosha had called you to eradicate the disease. O work years! Come here with your protective work. 
O agni! Those whom you inspire to perform yajnakarma to get wealth, let us and we get the yajna. You have filled the sky, the earth, and the space with your glory, and you protect the whole world like a shadow. 
Acharya brahmachari's upanayana i.e. yajnopavit sanskar and keeping it close to him, completes it with knowledge. Acharya keeps that brahmachari very close to him for three nights. On the fourth day, devgans gather to see that brahmachari born from the body of learning. (3)
Savita Dev is a producer. We are inspired by Saraswati Devi, by her speech. We are inspired by the form of Tvashta Dev and the animal god Pusha Dev. We are inspired by the powerful Jupiter and the radiance of agni. We are inspired by Raja Som. We are inspired by palak Vishnu. We are inspired to go on the divine (karma) path of the gods. (30)
O Som, undefeated by the enemies in the wars and the enemy-defeating Soma! You give us money and do us well. 
If, however, you think that the self is subject to constant birth and death, O mighty-armed Arjun, even then you should not grieve like this.
Drink ghee drinkers. Settle drinking fat. Ghee and fat are enough for space. Swaha for both ghee and fat. Swaha for direction. Swaha for Pradisha. Swaha for the enemy. Swaha for amar. Swaha for all. (19)
A man who makes evil praises does not receive wealth. Money doesn't even go to the violent. O Dhanaswami Indra! Only a person who is able to give to a person like me in heaven and in the future can find a good deed. 
One of the three sages said, "Water is the best," the other accepted agni and the third accepted the earth better. Thus speaking the truth, he did four parts of the spoon. 
The medicine that destroys sin has become angry. Its dried shakul trembles in the water filled in the pit of the cow's hoof. (1)
Amongst the twelve sons of Aditi I am Vishnu; amongst luminous objects I am the sun. Know me to be Marichi amongst the Maruts, and the moon amongst the stars in the night sky.
Gandharvas and Apsaras make that punyagandha the support of their lives. He who knows this becomes the shelter of life for all. (8)
O agni! You are the one who fulfills the desires and reinforces the host with money, etc. O the only giver! The host who sings your praises while picking up the sacrificial pot and offering you with the word 'vashatkar', you give him light first, then to the whole world. 
 Priests who remove Somerus! You offer somerasa to the knight Indra. This somerasa is worthy of praise everywhere. 
 Someras is bright, knowledge-enhancing and fulfilling desires. The sages have prepared it by remembering its sahasra form. 
We know Usha, the leader of the light and the vanis. The strange Usha has opened the closed doors of darkness for us, has illuminated the whole world, given us wealth and illuminated all the people. 
O Prajapati! No one other than you could subjugate all these created ghosts. May the desire with which we perform your havan be received by us and we may be the masters of the riches. 
O enemies Indra! Just as the boat protects in Sarita, so you protect the one who praises in the battle. I go to you reading the praises at the yagnakaal. Understand our words. We will soak your dansheel with somras in the same way as you fill the well with water. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You protect the womb in cows and all living beings. O work years! You inspire fire, water and vegetation. 
The hosts have performed yajna by fire. That was the first duty. Important hosts are gathered in heaven. There the erstwhile yagyakars also live in divine form. 
The enemy who commits the sin of act-making by living together like a friendly and wants to kill the man towards whom he is hostile. If it is ineffective by the resistance to that act, then violence the enemy who creates the stone act generated by the power of my mantras. (3)
He heats up with the help of truth and looks down through Veda mantras. That soul breathes obliquely in the air, in him he is the greatest God. (19)
Those with iron-like faces, needle-shaped mouths, many thorn-winged birds, meat-eating birds like vultures, and birds flying as fast as the wind, around our enemy, should be killed by thunderbolts. (3)
O praises! You people praise the pingal varna, the strong, the bloody and the one who touches the doloka. 
O wild, protector and happy agni! You be close to us. 
Usha, the daughter of heaven, reveals her form to us like a woman who does good. Usha always scatters the light by being a young woman while giving money to the husband's host. 
O men! May your enemies not destroy our children and heroes with the good deeds that they have done, so I am presenting that act to you. (2)
I worship those who destroy the enemy cities. I worship the lords of all the people, the balwans, the heroes and the praises of the people and the praises of the people, and like the strong Indra, the deeds and praises of the Vaishnavar Agni. 
O agni! The meat-eating vampire who has afflicted me while traveling at night and day and sleeping, suffers along with his child and this man becomes healthy. (9)
 O sun! You fill heaven with light and brightness. Your brightness shines between the sky and the earth. 
 O hosts! Indra is above all worlds. We call upon them for the welfare of the people. May it be the welfare of all of us by your grace. 
Just as a wife rushes to hear the husband's first call, so the god of day and night, the god of day and night, knowing many kinds of praises, may come quickly to our first call. Ushadevi should come with golden rays like the enemy-destroying sun and take on a great form. Usha should wear the splendor of the sun. 
 O priests! Somerus is holy. Its juice has been extracted by crushing it with stones. It has been filtered and refined in the filter so that Indra can drink it. 
O Megh Dev! The speed of you is like the speed of the eagle bird. You are as playful as a deer arm. You were born first. You cried as soon as it was born. You originated from the sea. As soon as you were born, you became praiseworthy, your glory spread everywhere. (12)
May the Som, who lays in the countries of Aarjeek and Kritva, and who is settling near the Saraswati and the five rivers, give us the fruits of the verdict. 
O Indra! In the battlefield, we commit violence against our opponents through you. I inspire your weapons with the words accomplished through my penance and sharpen your arrows with the same velocity as birds. (8)
Some people say that Indra originated from Aditya. I consider Indra to be born of force. Indra arose out of anger and was positioned on the attaris. He knows where Indra was born from. 
I am myself saying about the Brahman experienced from the point of view of public interest. He is dear to Brahma Devas and human beings. I make the man I want to protect stronger. I make him Brahman, Rishi and good intellect. (3)
Tell us about the previous sage, riches, sammantra, yajurveda mantras and mahati brahmavidya in which a sage is situated and in which a sage is immersed, who is he? (14)
Usha removes the darkness of the night and drives her chariot well. 
O Indra, lord of the grains! Don't you become as lazy as The Stota. Be happy to drink the mixed somers. 
O herbs! In ancient times, the Maharishis of Atharvaveda killed demons by making you a means. Through you, Kashyapa, Kanva and Agastya rishis killed demons. (1)
There are three on all sides. (8)
The friends and Varuna who protected Ushna Rishi, son of Medhatithi, Trishak and Shukracharya, who protected Gotam and Mudgal Rishi, should save us from sin. (6)
O God and Indra! You pull the goats to the first and the other to two fat horses. Indra kills Vritra with the help of the same horses. 
Just as a bull wishing for a cow is also recognized in the herd because of its word, so O Dudumbhi! By saying words with the desire to conquer the enemies, fill their hearts with anger. Those enemies should leave our villages. (3)
O gods of enemies! You have the same jati and fraternity in you. Tell us quickly and well the means of getting old wealth and new wealth. 
O swami! Present all of you fishing, charioteers, carpenters, blacksmiths and intellectuals around me to serve me. (6)
Oh, God! Where is your truth? Where is Varun's grace? Where is the path of the Great Arryama that we can walk away from sinful enemies? O earth and sky! Let's know this thing of ours. 
O Sadapushpa Jadi! Make me see demons and demons. They can't esoterically obstruct me. I hold you so that you show me to all vampires. (6)
O sun! You are the leader of the whole world. Your wealth is never lost. Make our praise successful. O Swami! Endow us with cows and horses. Let us be sons, grandsons, servants, etc. human beings. (3)
O Indra! You eat the purodash cooked by us. Just as the kaamis fulfill the words of the woman, so do you make our praise worthwhile. 
 O hosts! Indra has a horse named Hari. They are somers drinkers. You sing intoxicating hymns to those Indras. 
Soma, who conquers everyone and gives power, is watered on the Dashapavittra for Indra and Vayu. 
Indra said, "A man whose hairy male senses are wide at the time of his sleep, the same person whose purulent organ hangs between the thighs may not be able to have sex." Indra is the best." 
Wearing as sharp as the eyes of the gods, Sundari, with the strange wealth illuminated by her rays and the advanced usha sudarshan for jagadvadha, is seen whitening the sun. 
O Indra! Paradise increases your power and earth your glory. Mountains and space please you. 
Teachers, fathers, sons, grandfathers, maternal uncles, grandsons, fathers-in-law, grand-nephews, brothers-in-law, and other kinsmen are present here, staking their lives and riches. O Madhusudan, I do not wish to slay them, even if they attack me. If we kill the sons of Dhritarashtra, what satisfaction will we derive from the dominion over the three worlds, what to speak of this Earth?
O Swami! You mix somras with spoons while chanting the uktha mantra. This soma pleases Indra when he is gone. (8)
O cow! You know the earth very well and see the path of sacrifice. You go with milk, curd etc. Eat your master who is the master of cows. May you bring this deceased to heaven. (4)
After drinking somras, when the whole body is intoxicated, Indra increases the power and oz of this host. Just as the Stotas used to praise the glory of Indra before, they do so even today. 
O Jupiter God! You, along with Indra, provide the bride's clothes worn at the time of marriage to this bride. Which is part of the Brahmin, you both give me that garment. You give me this cloth with the permission of both Brahmins. (42)
Praise indra who is the friend of indra, the great, the great, the adornant, the ender and the one who squeezes the somras, the same indra. 
 O Indra! Our yajna graces you. Our prayers sung for you grace you. We miss you for your assistance in wars. You are a chronicle. Please give us the money we want. 
O agni! You are the face of Indra, the one who travels everywhere, the soul of all, the body of all and the man of all. I have come to your shelter along with all my colleagues. (12)
The sun has covered the sky with its rays. The Sun is full of rays. (2)
O school, the one who built you and the wood of the trees that he has brought to build you, Prajapati has built you for the sake of the people. (11)
O the deserters! The havi given by us is to satisfy you. We have become your servants to live our full life. 
O god without hate! On the basis of praises, I praise you well in the yajna. Hey Varun and my friend! Enemies do not hinder what you hold for the growth of your body. 
O somers squeezing people! Inspire the somarupi horse that creates wealth, the powerful and the quick-paced Somaroopi, to go into the battle of yajnarupi. 
 Soma is full of deserts, blissful, beloved of Indra and annamaya. The pure Someras used in the yajna becomes pure and falls into the vessel. 
Powerful, over-watered and mashed in the waters, som flows all over. 
O Indra Dev! O wind! You are well worthy of the invocation. We call upon you very well, so that all our (intimate) people become disease-free and superior-minded. (86)
The rays extend as bright a bright glow as the sun destroying the darkness by day. O Ashwinikumaro! The sun walks by adding horses to its chariot. You both take the somras and tell them their way. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You are a charioteer because of the knowledge of the medicines and because of the horse that is able to carry the chariot. O aschinikumaro who wields more force! Protect the one who gives you a heartfelt tribute. 
O Lord! You are being given somras with Indra and the shining sun including the desert. 
I am the gambling of the cheats and the splendor of the splendid. I am the victory of the victorious, the resolve of the resolute, and the virtue of the virtuous.
Therefore, O best of the Bharatas, in the very beginning bring the senses under control and slay this enemy called desire, which is the embodiment of sin and destroys knowledge and realization.
These soms are aimed at cow's milk, curd and thousands of grains and purified for great food and amrit by filtering them through the holes of dashapavitra in such a way that a horse that wins the army is bathed. 
 Indra is the king. They depart at a high speed in their chariot. They are greaters. They protect the faith of the hosts, they are the firstborn. We praise them. 
Hey Aditya! Increase the life of those who are very close to death. 
O Indra and Varun! Let not your people, persecuted and roamed by enemies, be destroyed by the enemies. Where is your glory that you give food to our friends? 
Yadu and Tuvasu , The welfare doers, enriched with cows and like devotees, give animals for the food of King Manu. 
The bones called the keakus that are spread in the upper and lower part of the heart, those disease-free bones should not go out of your body without violence. (14)
O light and rich usho! Let the same old or new chariot of yours come to the yagna many times today, through which you have illuminated the angirathic sages with seven verses, with the mouth of seven verses, of nine cows or ten cows. 
All the gods had taken strength to praise your importance with mutual love. You have defeated the vast earth and the sky, and your rays are undefeated and powerful. 
The bright, the revered and the most beautiful Indra is always ready to fulfill the wishes of his servant. The hostile and powerful Indra cut off the head of the evil enemy of the world and put it down. 
O Indra! We Kaushik Gotri Rishi call you to drink som rasa prepared wishing for protection from you. (9)
I will be sitting in the chariot and will perform yajna. All the gods and goddesses have inspired me to do this work. O Ashwinikumaro. You have to do the work of the teacher every day. The moon will be Brahma. You will receive sacrifices for both of you. 
Oh, God! You said to us, "O sons of Sudhanva! Drink this somras-like water or drink another somras purified with moonj straws. If you do not want to drink them, then in the third evening, be cured of sompan." 
In the wide directions of the sky, Usha rises from the illuminating radiance and has ended the black form created by the night. She is coming from her chariot with red horses, waking up sleeping creatures. 
One who is able to withdraw the senses from their objects, just as a tortoise withdraws its limbs into its shell, is established in divine wisdom.
 O hosts! Indra is always with you. They come towards your yajna when worshiped. We have chosen the great Indra. 
O burn! The Hiranyagarbha among you is worthy of service by the mantras of Yajurveda and is united with the devas. I send him towards my enemies. May the hiranyagarbha part of the water strengthen me. I destroy them with the witchcraft caused by this mantra and with the weapon of hiranyagarbha of water. (19)
Indra's mind is determined towards enemy victory. O stotao! Recite praises to the same glorious, great, accomplished and powerful Indra. He is the destroyer of Indra's enemy, serviced by ashchas, fulfilling desires and speedy. 
The young vaidya mantra that is never defeated is endowed with power. It can destroy snakes and scorpions called swaj. (15)
O Indra! Although these people praise you in a way for their protection, this hymn of ours is always yours of growth. 
O young man, agni! All the rights are given by aiming at your most fortunate. You, with a happy mind, perform the yajna of the beautiful and powerful gods today, tomorrow and always. 
O Lord of force Indra! May we be strong and fearless by getting your friendship. You're the undefeated winner. We greet you. 
 O Indra! You are an horseman. Please drink the happy Somaras. The stones with which someras is extracted are as stable in the yagyashala, just as horses tied to ropes remain stationary in the horse-riding. 
O god! You are part of shukla paksha dates. You have the right to the dates of Krishna Paksha. You protected the people from the fourth stom, so taking care of that, we establish you here. O god! You are part of the seasons. You have the right of gods. You protected the creatures from triassinshat stom, so we set you up here by meditating on it. (26)
Let all human beings beg for friendship with Savita Dev, let all people wish her money and get money for confirmation. 
O men! The Someras who protects the squeezer, the one who shines and the one who praises, the one whose strength, knowledge and fame, whose strength, knowledge and fame, is Indra. (15)
This friend, Stotao! Stop the dogs with long tongues who came to drink the unruly and intoxicating juice of the front and eatable mon. 
May this yajna be the food provider for us. May this yajna be a opulence giver to us. May this yajna be virility for us. This yajna should be a management skill for us. May this yajna be wisdom for us. May this yajna be a decision-making ability for us. May this yajna be the power to do for us. May this yajna be a verse for us. May this yajna be an adjunction for us. May this yajna be a sharp-minded person for us. The whole method is fruitful. (1)
May these three goddesses - Bharati, Saraswati and Prithvi - bless us. Our subjects should get nutritious foods and have a virtuous body. O stunning Mon! We should not be inferior to children and animals and enemies should not hurt us. (7)
 O agni! You please all over us. Let us make you kind to us with our prayers. You make us rich. 
The cows stolen by Namuchi were wandering around when they were separated from their calves. The Somras, squeezed by the sage Vaschu, pleased Indra, then Indra, along with the powerful maruts, had mixed the cows of Vaschu with the separated calves. 
O Maruto! The host who calls the demons in the devyagya who condemns those who praise your deeds and who raises tribulations for worldly pleasures, cast him into darkness by a chariot without wheels. 
The arrow drawn well by Cupid burns the spleen, the shelter of life. O woman! I pierce your heart with that arrow with straight wings and burning in many ways. (3)
O jataved agni! The enemies who are doing witchcraft by performing havan in the north direction of our habitat, they do our violence from the north direction. Those enemies should turn away from us and burn. We kill those magicians by returning their witchcraft to them. (4)
The pavaman som drips from time to time, covering the radiances that please and hold the radiances, playing and worshipping the gods with their juices. Ten fingers are made of sheep's hair and send it to Mon on the high dashapavitra. 
 Wayne Gandharva was born. He preached the brahmatej that arises first of all. Illuminated all by that fast. He especially installed that fast in space. The same Brahmatej is also the cause of all those who have been born and those who will be born. 
O agni! Considering you as a father, people satisfy you through yajna. People please you by sacrificing to get your fraternal love. Those who serve you, protect them as their sons, their servants, the doers of welfare and the enemies. 
O ladies, called the door! Touch a place higher than the sky and be as wide as the earth. You must, while wishing for the gods and the chariot, possess the chariot, installed by the gods with your own importance and the means of their vihara. 
The moon was born from the mind of the great man, the sun from the eyes, the air from the ear and agni from the mouth. (12)
O Gandharvo, that is, the dice of gambling! You get Vasu i.e. wealth, so your name is Samvasu. Since the dice are related to two nymphs called Ugrampshya Rashtrabhrita, we use somyukta havi for those Gandharvas or dice. After this, while gambling, we become the masters of wealth. (6)
O Indra and Agni! The leaders of the yajna have prepared a sweet somras for you with the help of stones. You understand my praise. 
O Indra! You used to like the praise of the sage Kutsa. You protected them; you also protected the warring and noble-looking dashadyu sage, and the dust that had risen from the tops of your horses spread to the sky. Sage Shaitatreya hid in the water for fear of enemies. They went out of your grace only because of your grace, the desire to have the highest position among men. 
 Soma is like the tongue of the yajna. Somers makes a sound while filtering. It is sweet and sweet juice. Som is aware of yajna related activities and fearless. They don't know their parents' names. These are prepared by the host. They are the ones who shine heaven. When they are filtered and ready, they take the third name called Somjayi. 
Indra contains all the world, penance and rit i.e. truth. O Indra! I know you directly. All this is contained in God. (30)
O Krishna, please dispel this doubt of mine completely, for who other than you can do so?
 O Indra! The sun's rays are enlightening. They salute you. They are going to awaken. They remind Indra of his earlier actions. These rays are located in Swarajya. 
O friends who see heaven and Varuna! You rule the world by adorning it in this yajna. We pray to you for wealth, rain and heaven. Your rays spread across the earth and the sky. 
 O Mon! You are a son. Earth is your mother and space is your father. You adorn your parents and grow from the truth. 
O agni with shobhan yajna! After the end of Nisha, bring Savita, Usha, Ashwinikumar, Bhag, etc. to the yagna when it is morning. The meekly ritviju who squeezes the somras makes you furious. 
O water! You are located in the skin of the sun. You are a national. You give us the nation swaha for you. O water! You are enjoyable. Please please provide us with pleasure. Swaha for you. O water! You are a national. Please provide you nation. Swaha for you. O water! You are a pastoralist. Please provide you animals. Swaha for you. O water! You are strong. Please provide you strength. Swaha for you. O water! You are a national. Please provide you nation. Swaha for you. O water! You are capable. Please provide you the ability. Swaha for you. O water! You are a national. Please provide you nation. You are going to feed the people. You provide the nation. Swaha for you. You are going to feed the world. You provide the nation. Swaha for you. Please water us in the melodious streams. Please give us kshatriya-like strength. Please give us courage and strength. Please have kshatriya power. Please be distinguished here. (4)
O watery Maruto! You rain by inducing water from space. O you who are the enemy, Maruto! The clouds that please you are never waterless. The chariot of the maruts going towards the water runs behind the back. 
The squeezed somras came near you. Just as the fast-moving rider grabs the reins of the horse and moves it forward, so do you also inspire the praises of the stunning hymn to come to us. 
Someras, who provides happiness, has been prepared for Indra. Somers is dripping from the shell used for filtering. O Mon! May your power make the gods happy. (4)
As before, at this time also, those who raise the poets, who carry the work of the stota and the pleasures come to protect us at the time of indra revered somras' home. 
The wealth given by you is received by all your worshippers. You give us the same money. (3)
Indra Dev is immortal, worthy of worship. He is the deva of the gods and in their hands. They are going to destroy the cities of enemies. Please perform yajna with sweet prayers for them. May they be pleased to be rejoiced by Eve. (3)
 While roaring famously, the deserted deity spreads like water in the yagna. Expand water. To drink that water, a group of cows have to go with knee-deep water. 
 Someras is the power of Indra, the giver of wealth to the hosts and the king in power. It is filtered for more pleasure. It crushes the wicked. It is going to destroy demons and enemies. 
O mighty and victorious Indra! Whether you stay away or live nearby, the host of the Somras squeezes takes you to the yagna by horses called Hari, whose hair goes from the earth to the sky. 
In addition to those who dance around the houses in the evening with words like donkeys and who dance in a shape similar to kusul, demons with large stomachs, terrible shapes like arjuna trees and making sounds dance around the houses,  O mustard medicine! You eliminate all those swirlers with your smell. (10)
Whenever the wind in the form of a vagina churns out the agni, then this white varna agni is produced in the entire yajnagraha. Just as king Bali, practicing friendship, sends his messenger to the king, so the sage Bhrigu put agni as a messenger. 
Just as the warriors who enter the battlefield attack, so the powerful Mons, inspired and restrained by the stotas, walk to the yagnabhoomi. 
O ghost! May you get these black sesame seeds mixed with black sesame seeds and full of swadha in detail when you attain the hereafter. Yamraj, allow you to eat them. (43)
You attain a young state from the verses of whiteness and non-violence. It completes quickly. (7)
O agni! You are equally adorned in the night and the summer period. You hold different forms. You enjoy a reputation as a suitable infant. You grace between earth and heaven. You are a wealth giver and a splendor. (70)
I am protecting this evil self from abhichar karma i.e. witchcraft, evil, poverty and disease. (1)
Indra, who squeezes the soma for indra who desires somras, makes that host rich. Those who want Indra with joy and squeeze somers, they are made friends by Indra. 
 O Indra! You are great. Your qualities are superior. You are a thunderbolt. Your fame spread like heaven. Be admired around the force of you. 
Where is Indra famous today? Today, they are heard near which person like a friend? Are Indra praised in the abodes or caves of the sages? 
Who knows this. The man becomes the beloved abode of Ida, Indrani, Diti and Aditi. (21)
O extraordinary successist, Lord of the Sages and The Sacrificial Lord Indra! You go to the house of the psalms like the grain. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! Let us, Vasishta, son, praise you by giving you a greeting. 
O patient man! I have attained you by getting rid of the loop of Yamraj and from all sins by the five shalakas and ten shalakas, by the wooden feet. (28)
O ashchinikumaro with full wealth! Consider the devious enemies before you. You are both Rudra, so torment the enemies who are hating. 
The microscope and the ability to travel in the sky illuminate the altar made by the fire hosts going to the desired places like the wind. Fires with hundreds of forms are illuminated like the sun. 
Jupiter destroyed the asura protecting the milch cows with a hunkar, as if killed by the armament of his hand. He made the panies cry and brought the cows back, wishing to coincide with the maruts. 
The cruel deeds of Yama that the farming farmers had done while digging the land in ancient times were not knowledgeable due to the lack of division between bad and good work. We perform havan for Aditi's son Devas and Yamraj. After this, that sacrificial food is sweet and worthy of our enjoyment. (1)
Hey Aditi, friend and Varun! If we commit any crime against you, protect us from it. O Indra! Let us get a wide and fearless light. May the dark night not pervad us. 
Hey on! You should donate good clothes and give money to Brahmins, when this act, that is, a woman with a destructive nature, goes near her husband. (25)
O Indra! You came several times to drink somras before. Come to this time also with a great desire to do sompan and listen to these praises of ours. Host provide you with somras to make your body athletic. 
Bhavyavya targeted his wife, Lomasha, and said, "Just as Nakuli clings to her husband, so this sexually-worthy young woman enjoys forever after embracing her. This sandy delightfully gives me hundreds of bhog." 
The villagers get increase with food and money. They are the best intelligent, white and equal-minded. Superior human beings worship air to get good children. (23)
O Shataudana Gau! May your spleen, anus, both eyes and your skin always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (17)
O Indra who holds the face of Somlata! You are the protectors of enemies, the ones with beautiful chins and the ones who fulfill the desire of the psalms. O Indra! You are the breakers of the mountains, the thunderbolt and the horses that are going to be added to the chariot. You reveal your bizarre food to us. 
The gods who destroyed the demons to protect heaven, Indra Aditya and Marut came to our yajna to protect our body. (2)
O God, Ashchinikumaro! You be satisfied with the somras done by the word swaha. You come in front of the Somras. I call you as a protector. You give me the jeweler. 
This is the question! We know you very well. You save us from nightmares. (3)
The disciple said, "May the somras, which is drunk in the stomach, deliver me from all sins and make me happy, this prayer I am praying with a true heart." Protect me from the sin I have committed. Why do people have so many desires in their minds? 
The havyavah, the beloved of many and Prajapati give the host to the agni. For this reason, we also give strength to agni. (2)
O kanvagotrian sages! Praise Indra, who is the leader of the songs, the guardian of the gentlemen, the seeker of food, who has gone to many lands and is dynamic. 
O Indra! Since you were born, no one is going to stop you, nor can anyone destroy the money you have given for the sacrifices. O kamavarshi, mighty, mighty and brilliant and called by many hosts Indra! Give us money. 
O Sun God! Atri Rishi, who is freed from the three heats of physical, divine and physical, has set you in the sky to make months. You stay there and come and keep illuminating all beings. (12)
The air given by the host should go to the sea, be beneficial. The air given by the host should go to space, be beneficial. The havi given by the host should go to Savita Dev, be beneficial. The love given by the host should go to God, be beneficial. The havi given by the host should go to Varun Dev, be welfare. May the day given by the host go to God, be beneficial. May the night given by the host go to God, be beneficial. Go to the havi verses given by the host, be beneficial. May the heaven given by the host go to heaven, be beneficial. The light given by the host should go to the earth and be beneficial. Let the sacrifice given by the host go to God, be beneficial. Let the havi given by the host go up to the som, be beneficial. The desire given by the host should go to God, be beneficial. The havi given by the host should go to agni, be beneficial. The blessings given by the host should go to the global, be beneficial. May God give heartfelt divinity to our mind. The smoke of agni should go everywhere. May the light and ashes of agni complete the earth. May the light and ashes of agni fill the space world. Love for these agnis. (21)
O Indra! Just as water goes down, so this whole world is the place of your sacrifice. You receive all three of the host's companions. Indra's beautiful, hostile and gold-adorned Vajra was able to dissect the mountain. (2)
May the boy be good to us. Please make us holy. May the Sun God be happy for us and be pleased to meditate. May the thundering Parjanya Dev rain well-being for us. (10)
These friends, Varuna and Aryama, are the destroyers of more sin. The sukhakari, the aparajita and the sons of Aditi all achieve an increase in the yagna bhavana. 
Savita Dev, holding gold in her hand and bearing shobhan vachanas, comes from the sky in all the three saavanas of the yajna. O Savita! Get the psalms of the psalms and provide us with all the desired fruits. 
Just as Kewat receives the hull, I have caught the snake head. I have returned from the central part of the Indus and made the snake venom ineffective. (19)
O Maruto! You are powerful, so you put all beings into your own work and also inspire the clouds. 
Indra's mother Shavasi said, "There are many asuras like Urnabha, Ahishuva, etc. You finish them." 
The agnis destroy the dark enemy by holding the delightful brightness and beautify by spreading flames in all four directions. We do not know agni who behaves like a man, because the great Savita of Bhagrupi gives us the best wealth. 
Who has done the transfusion of semen in this man, so that the fiber of the people can expand? Which god established the intellect in this man and who put an arrow in it? (17)
Today, the gifts given by the enlightening hymns constantly reached the gods, O Ritvij! You lay the cushion for the agni to sit. 
Drink the soma performed in the yajna karma with beautiful stotras of Marudgan Hota and with beautiful mantras, that is, drink the crushed and squeezed Soma. (1)
O agni! Hello to you. Your moves are bright. Hello to you. We worship you. You are going to sanctify. Those who are our haters, you punish them. You be welfare towards us. (11)
Hey Ritvijo! In addition to the Ashvinikumaras and Pushas, praise vishnu, vayu and indra with independent power and without malice for our protection. I will praise all the gods for the attainment of happiness. 
Who knows that world form very well? Who has the realization of his heart in the kalash form to hold soma, i.e. without destruction? Brahma with a beautiful intellect is blissful in this. (6)
We revere you for the arm of the gods Savita Dev and Ashwini Kumars. We associate you for the hands of Pusha Dev. We distinguished you with the speed of medicine of Ashwinikumars. We associate you with the supremacy of Brahmagyan. We associate you with the medicinal treatment of Saraswati Devi. We honor you for getting food and might. We anoint you for the strength of Indra Dev's sense. (3)
O Maruto! Speak the hymn for the great Indra. Shatrattu and Vrithrahanta Indra destroyed the Vrithra Asura with a hundred-edged vajra. 
May the gem made of this varan tree give me fame and opulence in the same way as fame is prevalent in the moon and in the sun, witnessing all human beings. (18)
O water! Just as mothers who seek the son's advancement give him milk, so do you give us your happiness and juice. 
The solution is to exploit all desires. Friends are going to provide medicines for Dev and Varun Dev for Idr Dev and Ashwini Dev for Pusha Dev and Prajagan. (72)
O Vajradhari Indra! Just as Aditya knows his colleagues, you also know the angry and powerful asuras. (3)
O Indra! Just as the gaur deer comes to a place without grass and water when thirsting for water, so we, having the friendship of the sages of the Kanvagotriyas, come quickly and drink somras with us. 
I am, conceive in medicines and cause conception in all beings. I gave birth to people on earth. I can produce a son among all women by performing yajna. 
I had established The Sage Divodas, the son of The Atishtagva, to protect the districts called Gungu by making him a disaster-destroyer, a destroyer of enemies and as edible as food among the people. I became very famous in the war of killing enemies called Parnay and Karanj. 
O you who are strange, those who hold the thunderbolt in their hands, the masters of the vajra, the enemy and the great Indra! Just as you give a lot of food to the conqueror of the enemies in battle, so you should sing to us by being pleased with our praises and give us horses skilled in pulling chariots. 
O Swami Indra! May the intellects of all our enemies be destroyed. The enemies who desire our violence, you should run your thunderbolt on them as a means of death and give us wealth. Other men's wings could not climb their bows. (4)
O air! To complete the yajna of the havandata host located in the yajnashala, come to our yajna with the help of the horses by which you go in front of him. Give us glory in the form of wealth, brave sons, cows and horses with rich food. 
Annad, who knows this, eats food from medicines. (12)
The ane is latent before creation and remains in the form expressed after creation. Fire has been born from the sun in the supreme dham sky. Fire originated before us and was present before the yagna. They are in both forms of cow and bull. 
He is the source of light in all luminaries, and is entirely beyond the darkness of ignorance. He is knowledge, the object of knowledge, and the goal of knowledge. He dwells within the hearts of all living beings.
O Indra! The stothas get from you the things they want through the greetings and hymns, just as they get water from the upper part of the mountain. O Indra worthy of worship by the praises! The bhardavajagotrian sages who praise and desire food go to you with praises in such a way that the horses are quickly present in the battle. 
 Hey Yazko! Recite brihatsam stotra for Indra. The sages who increased the yajna have created divine light for Indra with the help of him. 
When Jupiter was first born in the vast sky of the great bright sun, he destroyed darkness by taking seven faces, taking many types of forms, uniting with wordy and moving radiance. 
The somas that produce the hymns, the yuloks, the earth, the agni, the sun, indra and vishnu are pure. 
These somas are covered and the tormenting monsters by their parts. 
Adorned with adornments, shobhan chariots and shobhan garments, golden-coloured, well-decorated, full of food and wool, a scurvy and fortunate Indus is covered with honey-enhancing flowers. 
 We perform yajna with the mantras of Yajnaman Rigveda and Samaveda. The work we do with these mantras reaches the gods from this Yagya Sadan. 
The Indra is located as the bright sun, as non-violent agni and as the moving air everywhere, the beings who live in all the realms belong to the same Indra. The same Idol of Indra shines as constellations in the sky. 
O teacher! Give somras to Indra, who is willing to drink, who knows everything, who is more dynamic, who is present in yagnas, who is at the forefront and the leader of the war. 
The mantras of Rigveda, Samaveda and Yajurveda, the part sung and the praise presented are dependent on the remaining rice after uchishta i.e. home. The word 'Hi' used by all the originators, the vowels of Samaveda, the speech related to Samaveda - all these are located in me for the rest of the yajna. (5)
All the possessors, the most radiant, the ones who fulfill their desires, those who are called with all the means of protection, those who wear flames and herbs, those who wear the flames of the three kinds, the ones who rain and the food-keeping agnis come into our yajna. 
O agni with force and giving abode! In the salutationof the wise hymn, make the word of the yajnakar under the gods and upon the human beings. 
Due to the guardians of the yagnas, the givers of strength to the hymns, the means of knowledge for the ritvijs, and the yajnakarmas, the agni enters the earth and the sky through many forms. The host of the agni, beloved and bright in human beings, praises it. 
Ritwijs mash the green coloured mon, the som is served like a horse. Som cow's milk, located in Drona, is mixed with curd. When som does the word, the psalms praise. After this, Som pleases the stota who makes many praises with wealth. 
He is the extraordinary ekavrut i.e. Brahman, all this he gets. (6)
They do not oppress men and animals who live in harmony with him who knows it. (3)
Listen to this call of me, Vishwedev, whether they live in space or near to heaven. Be pleased with the Somras by sitting on these kushas who enjoy the yajna by the agni-like tongue or by some means. 
O Ashwinikumaro! By your grace we will overcome the darkness. That's why these praises have been made for you. You come to the yagna by the way of the gods, so that we may gain food, strength and long life. 
One who performs havan without the permission of such a learned fasting person does not know the Pitrayana path nor does he know the Devayana path. (9)
As soon as the agni was born immediately, he started creating the yajna and became the leading messenger of the gods. Mantras should be recited in the word of agni related to yajna, swaha words should be spoken and devya should be consumed. 
O dream! You are neither alive nor dead. You are full of the nectar of the gods like agni etc. the presiding deity of the senses. Varun's wife is your mother and Yama is your father. Your name is the inauspicious Arru that gives sorrow. (1)
Indra's iron-made vajra is green. Indra's beautiful body is also green in color. Indra has a green arrow. Indra's entire decoration is green. (3)
O salt! If you are as powerful as seven bulls, then make this cow have children, otherwise you will be considered powerless. (7)
Let our nishas and usha be melody. May the people who belong to the earth and the sky, the guardian of all, be pleasurable to us. 
Among the maruts who destroy enemies, there is neither small nor big nor medium. They are all big in sharp. O you who are born of adornment, earthly and human-benevolent Maruto! Come well before us from heaven, your birthplace. 
O Indra! Capable of pleasing, associated with beautiful gambling, having beautiful limbs and named Mitrarup Hari, both horses are ploughed in the chariot to bring you to the yagna. Listen to Indra Praises, a friend of my hymns, while consuming the roasted barley yajna. 
Indra is a bull-like wanderer, struggling, avakshi, hostile to enemies, ajar, very glorious, worthy of service and protector of both worlds. (2)
I have measured the land of the crematorium, by the same measure I have sent this ghost to heaven. By that karma, I should attain the age of a hundred years and before the hundred years, I should not get any other cremation work in the middle. (45)
Those who were happy to think of the objects of the prithushrava daan - cows, horses, etc., the gentleman's karma wala ordered the presidents of his kingdom - Ashtava, Aksha, Nahush and Sukritya - to do good deeds. 
 O Mon! You are a wealth giver and revered. You drip as a stream for Indra, Marudgana and Varuna. 
O agni! We are true devotees of you. Worship you day and night. Day and night they praise you. Please be kind to us. 
O earth and sky! Complete the never-diminishing, meritorious, the follower, the one who collects the Vedas, the cheerful and truthful with the parents, like a hundred streams of sleep. 
Those special beings who do not tolerate these suns while moving all over the sky, who are shriless, wear sheep's leather, are stinking, whose mouth is red due to always eating meat and whose gait is bad, I destroy such vampires. (12)
O stunning Saraswati! All the grain is in your shelter. O Goddess! Be happy to drink som in the Shunhotra yajnas and give us sons. 
 O Indra! Please fill heaven and earth with your light like Usha. You are great, glorious, king of the earth and Aditi is your mother. 
O agni! You are a powerful element to the service-doer. All the words of praise are yours. You are beneficial fast and our brothers. You are a quick-inspiring and a wealthy cash-giver. You are extremely wealthy. Give power to men. 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and the enemy. You are located in the riches. Som is your fast. I display might in the middle of the sky and remove it from the riches. Let the one who hates us or the one we hate be destroyed. Give up life from him. (30)
The joyous wealth that the hasty Angiras had received from Savita Dev by begging Savita Dev, Vasishtha's father, the great sacrificial Varuna and all the other gods alike, and give us the same wealth. 
O Indra! Even though you drink somras when Vishnu comes or drink somers in the yagna of Jalputra Trita Rajarshi or you drink somras when the maruts come, you should be happy only by drinking our som. 
Prana, Apana, Vyana, Ayu and Chakhu - all should be the vision of Aditya. O man! You too receive the ancestors through the direct path of Yamraj. (46)
Be steadfast in the performance of your duty, O Arjun, abandoning attachment to success and failure. Such equanimity is called Yog.
Bright waters that rain desire come, those waters give food that give strength to know the honeycomb and fulfill the desire. (9)
O yajnaagni! May the riches that hold all beings, all directions, "Mahanamni Devvanis, Revati Salt Verses, The Lightning of the Clouds and the Best Words give you peace through lists. (35)
Oh, God! There is no baby or kumar in you. You're all great. 
As the air carries fragrance from place to place, so does the embodied soul carry the mind and senses with it, when it leaves an old body and enters a new one.
Hey Ritvijo! Get up and try for the season-friendly part of Indra. If Indra's part is cooked, then do his home and if it is not cooked, cook it. 
We see the light paradise above darkness. Deities also find God while looking at the sun, the best astrologer. (14)
Friends, Varun, Aryama and Aditya, let us overcome sin, because they know our evil deeds. 
O Sukhaswami Indra! If you protect us, we will also defeat the enemies of the strong army. We will strike at the enemies who are ready to kill us. Say again and again to the host who gives the havi in this near it with the aforementioned riches, "For your purpose of conquering wars, we bring food in the form of a havi. 
O Indra! Be the protector of our bodies by taking the help of adityas and maruts. 
O sun with great light! Make the gods born of daksha and with beautiful light friendly to us. Those gods are two born, those who love yajna, those who speak the truth, the rich, the characters of yajna and the agnijina. 
O Pawman Mon! Send us to Sangram. You are skilled, beloved and possessive of gods. We are willing to praise you. Kill our enemies and come to us. O Indra! You drink the somras and kill our enemies. 
Knowing the imperishable Brahman, preach the subject of Aditya Brahm that he is situated in an excellent place and heart. Three parts of it are hidden in the heart. He who knows them is also the father of his father. (2)
 After squeezing someras, the host praises with holy prayers and ties it in the stream and filters it. 
 O Mon! You are powerful and destroyers, take the chariot along and destroy the enemies. We sincerely request you to give money. 
Param Vyom has the letter Omkar. All the gods reside in it. What will one who does not know this do even after knowing the Veda mantras? Those who know this reside in the same Brahman. (18)
Not fully aware of the form of the sun, I ask my mind that the defense of all the gods is contained in this sun. Scholars have established seven fibers for the expansion of the Sun God. (6)
The donor receives visible objects on the earth and the sun-adi folk are rich. The donor becomes immortal by attaining a long lifespan without germination. 
O Ritvij! Indra removes even the biggest fear. No one can defeat that sun seer, that is, Indra, who sees everyone. (8)
O agni! Equip me with speed, strength, children and long life. Devgana knows my purity and Indra along with the supernatural munis also knows my purity. (2)
Where the ritwijas of Shobhanjanma sit, the agni shines more than the cosmic agnis, the welfare, the child-giving, and the brighter. 
O Indra! The somras that has been squeezed for you will remain the same for you. The praises that are pronounced call you. You accept this yajna of ours and do sompan. You all know. 
Hey Mon! Just as the owner of the chariot instructs the one who drives the chariot, so do you give knowledge to this host and be radiant and rain down. 
O agni! Come with your friends, Varuna, Som and Vishnu and drink the squeezed somers in the yagna and be as happy as sage Atri. 
O Indra! May you inspire us to be great, successful and opulence. (12)
Humans living on earth, gods, wild and rural animals, creatures without wings and with wings all originated from celibacy. (21)
O God! Air, Jupiter, Sun, Agni and Indra! All of you get together and go towards Pavaman Mon with the word Swaha. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You have the ability to produce the sun and hold the sun water. The Sun is capable of making life dynamic in the earth. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You come to our yagna with shobhan deepti, we are wealthy, the giver of the havya and your friends. You make our homes thriving. 
O Goddess of Siniwali! You are the sister of the gods, with many hairstyles and a child to follow the subjects. We have invited you to accept Havi. Please accept the havi and give us children. (10)
The host who sits in the yajna, who donates to the maruts at the end of the yajna, becomes the lord of food, money and servants and drinks someras with the devas. 
O Vrithrahanta, full-age, workman and annadata Indra! Be the lord of our most beloved praises. Come before us for great defences and welfare friendships, willing to go for the sake of greatness and appearance. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You went in front of you, moving as a cloud and received the sage Medhathithi, the son of Kanva. 
O agni! The servants of the indebted king, who were residents of the land of Rusham, had done a good job by giving me four thousand songs. I had accepted the gorup money given by the best leader loan. 
I describe the glory of the wind running at the same speed as the chariot. The word of air resonates in all places and vibrates to the tree. The air touches the sky and moves reddening all the places and blowing the dust of the earth. 
Take off the muddy cloth. Donate money to the Brahmins thus the act goes away and the wife enters the husband. 
The vessel which is tested by taking the juice from the meat cooker, the vessels which preserve the juice of boiled meat, the vessels which are used to stop steaming and cover the container filled with meat, the branches of the vatas, from which the horse's heart etc. marks, a knife from which the meat is cut according to the chihuns,  All of these beautify the horse. 
O men! Among the gods, mainly yajnasadhaks, called by havya, pleased by hymns, sons of food, nourishing and charitable masters of the subjects, go near agni and praise them. 
Growing by force, the more powerful and the shanruhanta creates more fear in the minds of indra dasas. The living and lifeless substances are modified by Indra. O Indra! When your happiness arises, all the nourished beings gather together for praise. 
O Mon! You display a lot of might in wars. You are an enemy, army, gopalak, force protector and a good residence. You are the winner, the success. O Mon! You make us happy. We emulate you. (20)
O Vishwakarma! We will increase your growth. You perform the yajna yourself. You perform yajna for the benefit of the earth. You fascinate our enemies. You are the knowledgeable sun form here. (22)
O Indra! You all penetrate the enemy forces, do violence to the enemies, stop the war and give us valuable money. 
O sage! Praise Lum Friend and Varun's speed. Their power holds the duality of their importance separately. The months of those who did not perform yajna passed without sons. Increase their intellect towards the yajna. 
Let Varunadi Dev protect us from the front, from the back, from the top and from the bottom with all his attendants. 
You are distinguished in the heart of the sea and in the Yagya Sadan. You are bright and light. You fill the earth and space world with your light. (63)
O Indra! Your horse-drawn chariot should walk in the best way towards the enemies, and your thunderbolt came to kill the enemies. You kill the enemies who come in front, those who follow, and the fleeing enemies. Give the power to make the world miserable. 
This huge world was the trap of the great Indra. I cover all these enemies with darkness with the help of this trap of Indra. (8)
Bilva i.e. Bel and Udumbur i.e. Sycamore - both these trees are very good. The great one who afflicts them on all sides scratches the elders. (15)
 The sun took out the rays of the cave and brought it to the angiras 
We call such Indra in the yajna who is the conqueror of the land, the conqueror of wealth and the conqueror of horses, that Indra should listen to our praise. O Indra! You be the one who loves us. (11)
All the substances that have been brought by killing and conquering enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all heroes are ours. We remove the son of such a tribe and such a woman from this world, he should not be free from the bondage of Prajapati. I wrap his glory, verch, life and age and make him fall face down. (11)
O cow unworthy of slaughter! You eat the beautiful straws of barley and become endowed with more milk-like wealth. In this way we will become wealthy. Eat the straws of grass regularly and roam freely everywhere and drink clean water. 
At the time of consecration, the streams of strong Som flow like streams flowing from the back of the mountain. Just as the stream of water flows covering the mountain, so the streams of Soma flow by covering the mountain of wealth and splendor. Similarly, the earth was won in the first phase of Vishnu. Space was won in the second phase of Vishnu. Swargloka was conquered in the third phase of Vishnu. (19)
O disgusting inspiration and a agni with many great flames! We beg of your all-seer. You call the gods to eat the havya. 
While wishing, human beings praise the praiseworthy and very young agni in the yagnas. The lord of the night had become a lazy messenger on behalf of the devotee for the sake of the agni yajna. 
Fire is wonderful and absorbing. Call agni to all human beings. You are bright-haired. You are extremely dear. We bear the havi for you. (31)
The lighted and the guardian of all, the agni, ploughs the horses in their chariots and quickly goes to the gods. O agnis of well-called and adorned! You are a yajnarup and a shobhankarma. The havan of Vasishthagotriya rishi should go to the agni. 
What Jamya elaborates adorns the friend. The one who is the eldest pracheta is called a half-hearted. (2)
Like indra's place of drinking, the word som, creating usha's fortune and falling down. 
Oh, God! May we enjoy the great pleasures you have given us unhindered. 
 O Indra! You are the sustainer of all, the destroyer of demons, the obstacle of enemies, the destroyer of the army and the protector of our chariots. Let us be victorious in the war. 
O Brahmaspati! You're going to control this world. You know this sukta and please our children. The one whom the gods protect receives all the welfare. We will receive shobhan sons and grandsons and speak many praises in this yajna. 
The host should wish for this fund. The rice given by us is in the form of heritage. This odan went to heaven and reached heaven with all three of his kandas. (42)
The first sitting person is killed by the second man with an arrow. The killer kills other human beings. O act! Return to your Creator. (27)
Just as the charioteer rotates the wheel of the chariot, so does Indra, who has shobhan semen, turn his more speed around. Indra destroys the darkness of his fast-paced and efficient world. 
Indra's thunderbolt is located in space similar to the Sun. Just as the sun's horse velocity receives the sky, so Indra's thunderbolt reaches the destination. Indra anrmented Vritrasura with his green thunderbolt and put his companions in mourning. (4)
Serenity of thought, gentleness, silence, self-control, and purity of purpose—all these are declared as the austerity of the mind.
O true agni! I praise your red-colored horses, faster than your heart, and showering food and water. By ploughing those bright horses in the chariot, the characters of the yagna go well between the gods and the men who serve. 
O seeable Indra and Vishnu! You fill your stomach by drinking this intoxicating somras. Intoxicating Mon get you as food. You hear my praises and my call. 
O vast host of yagna! You come to this yagna from Jhuloka, Akash or the Bright Sun Circle. The priestly group is praising you well in this yajna. 
O unsettled Mon! Your stream, serviceable and fastened by the Psalms, runs on the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair in such a way as the horse of the enemy hero runs. 
This sacrifice should be well received for different and thousands of sages. (19)
O Indra! Come near the mon, squeezed by stones and placed on the cushions, and drink it and be satisfied. 
I have done such and such a thing in the first night. I destroy that bad dream through the sins and defects I receive every day in waking state, in a dormant state, in the day or at night. (9)
O Indra! Your stotra appears from our mouth like juice, cheering the ocean etc. with rainwater. After sompan, your power becomes special. (4)
O demon who makes the bodies of creatures old! Let the demons you have sent to us bring poverty back from us. Let your weapons also return. Your attendant thieves should also return. Go to the enemy you have and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. Eat his flesh. (5)
These brides and grooms should be enriched with cow's milk. They should get the prosperity of cows etc. These spouses become complete work by unlimited speed and money. (2)
O Ashwinikumar! Just as the buzzing bees fill honey in the hive, so you fill the cows' trunks with milk. You get drenched in sweat like the labourers and get your food in the yagna like a lean cow that feeds in the pasture. 
Prajapati has created all the things and creatures of the world as the best, the middle and the middle. How many substances of this world have entered Prajapati? Who is the one who does not enter? (8)
The pure and radiant sun always moves between the earth and the sky, giving pleasure to all beings, sacrificial, with efforts to produce water, adorned and efficient by its efficient, protecting its features between the earth and the sky. 
In a state where a Brahmin is hurt, Varuna does not rain. The assembly of that nation is powerless and its army is not able to control the enemies. (15)
O Indra! We know your best intellects. Don't let us be condemned and come to our sacrifice. (3)
O Indra, who has innumerable defences and many works! The Psalms sing to your glory by hymns. 
While traveling in all the nights, we should cross the night with the grandson etc. again from the body. Our enemies cannot cross the night like men inferior to boats etc. with crossing the river, that is, they should be destroyed in the night itself. (3)
O Indra! You kill the male form-bearing demon and kill the female form of the demon who dominates others through Maya. For whom death is a game, the necks of such demons should be cut off and they die. They should not see the rising sun. (24)
We call indra, the leader of the rich world, the leader of the wealthy world, the hearer of praises, the fierce of the enemies, the demon destroyers in wars and the conqueror of the wealth of the enemies, indra, the leader of the wealth of the enemies. 
The imaginary yajna in which the sarvakta man is performed, produced ghee mixed with curd. From this, wild and rural animals related to the vayu dev also arose. 
Som goes to The Dyava-Prithvi on his own, as the mother of the inter-union, the giant and the sacrificial mother. The adhwaryu who extends the yajna mixes som in water. 
Gya Dev praised Indra Dev a lot of times. He increases them. We worship him with viraj verses. We represent our form and age to them. They are rich. They give us money. Hosts perform yajna for them. (42)
 O hosts! Indra has become the swami of heaven with his effort. They bring victory to the revered, unpretentious and willing to win in human beings. All of you should worship them together. 
Listen to our commissible and milk-like beloved hymns by the help of the agni earth and the sky, who keep the food mixed with milk in the stomach, unbelieved by the enemies and the violence of the enemies. 
While performing yajna and shedding rasa, the publisher of the Som Yajna, the son of the great waters, pervades all the beloved human beings and is present in Dyava-Prithvivi. 
The paddy and barley that are denoted are somas. (14)
In the Rohit period, it was Prajapati. These are the basic forms of yajnas and these rohits now nurture heaven. (39)
O thunderbolt Indra! May the beloved friend who gives you the gift deserve your charity. Let us be free from violence and be more grained because of your kindness and let the human guard dwell in the house. 
When the speedy som sits in the golden place of the yajna, he leaves the yajna of those who do not speak the hymns. 
 O Indra! You destroy enemies in wars. You are going to obstruct enemies. You are going to destroy natural calamities. You are going to create objections for our enemies. You are the destroyer of the wicked. 
The moving and water-raining deserts come to us, crossing the nights, which is why the brightness of the maruts pervades the earth and the sky and deserves praise. 
 O Indra! The host is looking at you with somersas in his hands, just as the cattle keeper looks at the animal with love with grass in his hand. 
O daughter of heaven Usha! You drove away the darkness of Sunethi, son of Shuchadratha. O Shaktishalini, Usha with a beautiful birth and reverential praise! You remove the darkness of the truth. 
Black necks are related to agni and brown soma. Mixed colored Sabita Dev and small calves are related to Saraswati Devi. The black colored Pusha is related to Dev. Mottled are related to Marudgana. Polymorphs belong to the world. Bandhya cows are related to heaven and earth. (14)
Indra, pleased with Somras, drank somras and made friends with somras and did good deeds. O Indra! The ancient and new stoetas received good deeds from you in the yajnashala. 
The Pavaman Som produced in the water cries like a child facing downwards. Mon, who walks like a powerful horse, wants to resort to paradise. They come to earth from heaven with the juice of cows and herbs. We ask for a rich house from those mons through shobhan praises. 
The best Kush is present. (6)
O agni! You want the greeting of those who want to perform yajna and are the advocate of yajnakarma. 
The Indras who receive wealth in the human destructive war, whether they are called by a few human beings or by many, pure on them, the all-famous and the leader of the yagna, indra, is today friendly to us. 
O warrior people! those who makes the enemies cry, the warriors who conquers the enemies, the ones who are victorious, those who do not get distracted by others, the loss-givers, the ones who have an arrow in their hands, fight the enemies with the help of Indra. 
 O Mon! You are enlightening and intelligent. You are refined to the vayu dev. 
The vampire who comes as a husband, vice-husband or brother and wants to destroy the child in your womb, we kill him. (15)
The sun that rains water enters the middle of the vast earth-sky, inspiring Usha at the beginning of the satyarup day. The great Usha becomes the shadow of the friend and Varun, thus spreading her light everywhere, just as gold spreads its brightness. 
O Indra! The sage Kanvagotriya invites you to this yagna to get protection and food. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to Duloka. 
The high-knowledgeed deserts roar like lions, they are as virtuous as omniscient deer. The deserters, who are hostile, pleasing to the stoes and full of destructive angry force, come immediately with their vehicle deer and weapons to protect the host persecuted by the enemy. 
The gods obtained the ghee hidden from the asuras from the cows in three ways. In a way (one part) jana for Indra Dev. In the second way (second part) jana to the sun. In the third way (third part) Jana for Brahmins. (92)
 O Indra! You have no enemies, that is, you are ajatshatru. As soon as you were born, Vritrasura etc. became the enemy of six demons. Saved heaven and earth from his darkness. You made both worlds light. You gave stability to both worlds. You made both the worlds beautiful. 
Strange forms like wealth, those who show all things like the sun, the founders of life like air, the beloved like the son, the folk vehicle like the moving horse and the nourishing like the cows, the radiant and the specially lit agni  come to burn the forests. 
The Guru should say to his disciple thus, 'O Devdatta! If you consume this odan with the help of the thighs with which the previous ritualists consumed this odan, then your thighs will be destroyed.  It has not been done from the front, nor by the spirit. I have consumed this odan with the help of friends and varuna thighs. I have taken it where it should have gone. This odan is full of all organs, all joints and with the whole body. By this method, the one who knows how to consume this odan is full of all the organs, all joints and the whole body. He is awaited in the virtuous worlds like heaven etc. (13)
O poison! First of all, the beautiful winged Garuda ate you. For this reason, do not make this man a drunkard and do not be fooled. O poison! You become food for this. (3)
The agni that burns this world comes between Dyava and the earth. There are nurturing goddesses. Where does Matarishva i.e. air reside at that time? (39)
The mons, who hold all, worthy of purification, are worthy of purification, the force of the juicy gods, praiseworthy by the ritvizs, the green ones, the ones born and learned by beings, the horses with the same velocity as the ones that are learned, drip from heaven. 
This gem is a deterrent to the suffering caused by witchcraft done by others and destroys enemies. This powerful jangid mani should increase our life. (6)
If there is inspiration from the sun, which is to be illuminated and the inspiration of all, then man should do cosmic and Vedic deeds. May water be beneficial to us and medicines should our sins be calmed. (3)
O mon who gives money! You flow into hundreds of thousands of serene streams to protect us. 
O milk! Just as the animals of the forest are afraid of the forester hunter, in the same way, you have captivated the minds of the enemies, frightening the enemies with your roar. (4)
When I call the Ashwinikumars, only then will they come to my aid in my war. The victorious rakshasadhan is the best in the coronation of ashvrinikumars. 
I have come to know the Vaishnavar agni in the form of a quickly moving, famous, great and revered solar system in the cave, served for agnihotradi by milch cows. 
Seasons should be pleasant according to the season. The festival should be pleasant and disciplined. May you get happiness from the glory of Samvatsar. May peaceful deeds be pleasant for you. (40)
O Indra! Let your enemies sleep in your place of origin, describing your glory under the pretext of praising the thunderbolt. When you carry the thunderbolt, you rain water downstream and sit on the chariot with your horse. You grow crops with your power. 
Those who see action in inaction and inaction in action are truly wise amongst humans. Although performing all kinds of actions, they are yogis and masters of all their actions.
O agni with great wealth and full of desire! Make us overweight, child-bearing, healthy, powerful and powerful and possessing wealth. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Where are you, where do you go, and where do you fall like a hawk? May your defense be near us. 
 O Indra! You are the destroyer of Vritrasura. Just as water flows downwards, so with Somers, we bow down to you and greet you. In the holy yajna, all the hosts sit on the seat of Kush and worship you. 
We have taken the urn. Savita Dev is the food provider. May He be pleased to give us anan. You should save food for us and complete the yajna of yajnapati. We worship Savita Dev for our good fortune. (7)
Just as a strong wind sweeps a boat off its chartered course on the water, even one of the senses on which the mind focuses can lead the intellect astray.
O Indra, the target of the praises! You get the somras in the three yagna named sawans. May this Som be your helper and welfare in the attainment of higher knowledge. 
Vishwamitra said, "Just as two horses left from the horse race with the desire to move ahead of each other, or two cows willing to lick the calves with their tongues move quickly, so the rivers of the two beautiful cows, the Sutlej and the Beas, like the two beautiful cows, come out of the lap of the mountain and want to meet the sea and flow fast. 
Oh my friend and Varun! Your importance is famous because the sun, which is always rotating by it, had milked the standing waters of the rainy season. You make all the rays of the moving sun bright. Your lone chariot moves slowly. 
O Notable 
O Indra! The sage Bharadwaja offers his service at your feet to get glory. You give money to the psalms in the form of the thunderbolt, the shuntroper, the struppers and the right form of shakti. O leader Indra! You move around like the sun, taking a plausible and routine form with the idea of being visible to all. 
 O Mon! All gods are willing to drink to you. You are the best of the happy ones. 
In the west direction, there is a swami and happiness-giving vyom, so this direction is considered superior. You should keep the ripe odan in this direction and get the fruits of virtue. Then with the effect of this ripe odan, both of you appear in heaven and on earth. (9)
O hosts! You install the Jata Veda, the one who carries the yajna, the very young, the dutee-wise and the agni that performs the yajna according to the season. 
O daughters of the bright sun and the radiant Usho! You give us money with sons and grandsons. We are waking you up because of happiness. Thus we will be the masters of wealth with sons and grandsons. 
First of all, start punishing the agni god demons. After this, drive away the demons of Indra with powerful arms. All the demons suffering from Agni and Indra should come and surrender and introduce themselves that I am like this. (4)
The self-sufficient, self-generated and vibrating deserts appear as instruments of food and heaven, etc. Like the waves of the sea, thousands of good milch cows sing milk, just as they give milk, so they rain water. 
When we are sure to gain momentum, let us follow the path shown by the friend and find the happiness of the dear friend in our home. 
But persons who possess neither faith nor knowledge, and who are of a doubting nature, suffer a downfall. For the skeptical souls, there is no happiness either in this world or the next.
Mon sends his juice to Dronakalash by dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. The seven verses of the sages praise The Mon. 
 Somerus is bright and green. He has reached the character very quickly. He gets to Indra as soon as possible. 
The best grandmother, the master, the guardian of the gentlemen and the son of purukuts, Trasadsyu, have given me fifty wives. 
All the periods were born in the yajna from that Supreme Man. There is no one above that. No one can cross it from the top, middle etc. (2)
Thus knowing the soul to be superior to the material intellect, O mighty armed Arjun, subdue the self (senses, mind, and intellect) by the self (strength of the soul), and kill this formidable enemy called lust.
Oh my friend and Varun! You sit in the yajna, praised by the sage Jamadagni. Drink both of you som who increase the fruits of the yajnakarma. 
The mountains do not move away from their place even when they are inflicted and hindered by the maruts. Mountains remain stable. 
Savita, who is all-in-a-day and holds the dulok, comes to us with the same eagerness as the cows come towards the village. The warriors go towards the horse. The wedded cow goes towards the calf and the husband goes towards the wife. 
With a desire for enjoyment and illuminating the whole world, Usha comes to every house every day with humility and accepts the best part of the wealth. 
All bhuvanas and creatures reside in the three wide phase deflections of those Vishnu. O broad Vishnu! Do the power to keep your three feet in the three worlds and make our place of residence a wealth joint. O Vishnu, the form of Ghrita! Drink this havan while being performed and increase the swami of the yajna. Vishnu has demonstrated Vikram in this world. He has set his feet three times. The whole world is established in these three phase deflections of Vishnu. (3)
 O Mon! You are great. You are mixed with the water of great rivers and the milk of cows. 
These somas come out like great air, rain of clouds and flames of agni. 
O Cupid! Lum kill my enemies and drop them into the thick darkness. They should all become senseless and powerless and they should live only for a few days. (10)
 O Marudagano! If your soldiers are attacked, Indra protects. They are going to attack the soldiers of the enemies. No one can win them. We invite those Shaktimaans to protect the chariots. 
 O Indra! You are the follower. We have attracted your intellect towards us. That is, we have received your grace. Now we are illuminated like the Sun God. 
His broad wonders move swiftly, his glory is the most luminous, and he does not find any sin sin, either vedic or man-made. 
Whoever performs havan with the order of such a learned fast, his agni home is successful and there is no fault of this. The ashram of that householder of this world is safe. (6)
O agni with a body protector and a good tongue! You make the paths that attain Satyalok sweet and taste them and increase my yajna and get it to the gods. (2)
Indra, who kills the Vritra Asura, is raised for strength and happiness. We call them in all kinds of wars, big and small. May they join us on the occasion of war. (1)
O agni! You are inclusive and omniscient. Please invite the gods to the yagna of human beings. We call upon you. You are our friend, consciousness, poet and messenger of gods. (25)
O agni! From you, the sun shines heaven. The rays of the sun shine to heaven. May the rays of those gods shine and illuminate everyone today. Get published to make everyone stunning. (46)
O work years! You brought Bhujyu, brought by horses and drowned in the sea, by your own horses, to a remote house near his father. We know the great protection you gave to Divodas. 
People who don't know the way ask those who know. According to the instructions of the route seeker, he reaches the desired place. On searching by the same discipline, the path of water can be obtained. 
The violent, the heroic, the human-benevolent, the special-wise, the hearers of our praises, the special protectors of the praises, the givers of the abodes, the praises of the hymns, the worthy of the hymns, and the lord of the food, give food when called to the Indra Yajna. 
O agni with bright flames! Get up and go into the destruction of the demons, spread your flames against the enemies, and burn the suns through a bright group. O agni well- lit agni! Burn the lowly one who is hostile to us like dry wood. 
This madhukasha is the mother of cow adityas, the daughter of vasus, the life of the subjects and the navel of nectar. The gold-colored honeycomb is going to provide ghee. This makes great rapid movement in humans. (4)
The rivers that flow in the higher countries, in the countries below, in the powerful countries, in the watery countries and in the countries without water, the goddesses of the welfare river, destroy the disease called our shipad and become non-violent. 
Prajapati drank nisrit som rasa with milk. Prajapati drank bright som rasa with milk. It brings truth from rita. It provides strength in the senses. It gives us milk, nectar and sweet substances. (79)
O agni! You are with us. You are a guardian, protector, benefactor and giver of future generations. You are a home giver, world-renowned, wealth and a traitor. The stars and wealth of our eyes are the givers. (25)
O god! We meditate on verses related to earth, space, constellation, wakuman, agriculture, hiranya, cow, aja, horse. (19)
The king of the world, Som, is nichudata. Indra's karma who sees heaven is better than that of the sages. Som wished for Indra's yajnakarma. Som is purified by the rays of the sun. The karma of Som, the follower of our praises, is superior to that of the poets. 
The harps of the maruts are appearing in the middle part of the chariot made of gold from the praises of the sages like Saubhari etc. Sing those who have mothers, may the beautiful born and the great-willed deserts be kind to our food, enjoyment and happiness. 
While being pure, sweet, sacrificial, radiant, squeezing, a group of delicious ras streams, the giver of food, the giver of wealth and the life-giver, Soma, who gives life, is filtered for Indra. 
Just as Farsa cuts down trees, Indra kills the enemies. Indra broke the shrugs, shaped rivers with rainwater and boiled the mountains like raw pitchers. Indra presented the water to us along with his fellow maruts. 
O agni! Bring the gods and goddesses here to protect us. Oh, very young agni! Give us a voice so that we can call the gods and speak the truth faithfully. 
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be four and forty, that is, forty- forty, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (4)
O yellow mon! I rejoice in your friendship day and night. We go to you, ignited with a glow and in the supreme place, in the same way that birds transgress the sun. 
O glorious and praiseworthy agni! Know our great praises. The hymns born shobhan are praising you. O agni! Your worship published in the yajnashala is performed by the hosts holding the food in the form of havan in their hands for the sake of their son. 
O mon who gives money! You fall down as the stream for the characters indra, varuna and maruts of our yajna. 
I praise Indra, who has defeated the unbearable, fierce and hostile armies for others. At the time of Indra's birth, the giant and vegetative cows, The Hulok and the earth had praised him. 
O Indra! May you bring a hundred horses with an admired back to receive our mon and grain. 
This used medicine is made from honey, so honey drips from it. This herb, containing honey and named Madhuk, destroys the poison of crooked poison and eliminates mosquitoes. (2)
The agni garhapatyas, etc., elaborate in three places, are willing to stabilize the houses of the host and sit on the altar in the yajnashala surrounded by flames all around. From here, agni goes to the gods by taking the vows of the people and taking the wishes of giving it to the gods by accepting the purodas etc. and controlling the enemies of the yagnakarmo. 
The human-like sages had spoken the truth. He did as he said. Soon after doing the four parts of the spoon, Ribhugan became a participant of the swadha in the third sawan. Seeing the four spoons as bright as the day, Taksha expressed her desire to take them. 
O Indra! When the opportunity for war comes, you kill many bandits with the help of the desert. You took a thunderbolt in your hand to protect Rajarshi Dabhiti and destroyed the bandits named Chumuri and Dhuni. (4)
Those who formed the thirteenth more month by forming a group of three days and nights, o Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry god and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Make it weak by staggering and tie it in your loops. (8)
O young lady! Why do you hold On Kumar even when you are a perpetrator of violence? Poojaniya Arani has given birth to Agnirupi Kumar. The agni in the arani continued to grow for several years. We saw the son the mother gave birth to. 
 O Mon! You are a money giver. You are the strong destroyer of enemies. You give us the money that the rich people have. 
All the things that have been brought and won by tearing the enemies are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be free from the bondage of the fingers. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down. (14)
The sun-like Gandharva had met the nymphs of unworthy rays of condemnation. The sea is said to be the abode of these nymphs, from where they come here with sunrise and leave with sunset. (3)
When deserts move with the winds, they scatter the rain and make the mountains tremble. 
O sacrificial friend and Varuna! For you it has been som squeezed. You hear our call. 
O yajnapalaka karta, brahma's jamai and vayu attain.  We are the brothers of Brahma and the masters of all. We will be rich with the money given by air. 
The transmitted animals mentioned above are for Indra Dev and Agni. Animals with excellent songs are meant for Mahendra Dev etc. Many colors are for Vishwakarma Dev. (17)
O Indra! Just as the department of money is done to the guests who come home, in the same way people in the house also distribute the money given by you among the people. People eat the food given by the father with their teeth. You have done all these things in the past, so you are worthy of praise. 
Repeatedly destroying the darkness, the greenish, the dynamic fast and the streams that make the mon happy and fast flowing, while being clean, fall into the dashapavitra. 
Mon comes on sheep's leather to meet the jalrupi bride. Som comes to the yagna and makes the herbs produced on earth flowery for the hosts. The green ones, the sacrificial and collected mons of all, defeat the enemies. Like the Great, the broad Mons everywhere shine with their brightness, attenuating the forces of the enemies. 
It would have been soobhan and Ashwinikumaro who spoke praise! We serve you through praise groups. You come on a chariot that knows the water and is rich and by the way of the prevailing path. 
O agni! Knowing the good fortune, increase our life in this yajnakarma. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash protect us that age. 
We call the agni that oppresses the thieves from a distant country along with the sages Turvaya, Yadu and Ugradeva. Let them invite the rajarshis named Navasta, Brihadratha and Turvita to this yagna. 
The reason for the profit in my right hand is krit i.e. the great victory of gambling and in the left hand is such victory, which is the end of gambling. In this way, I should be the conqueror of others' cows, the conqueror of horses, the conqueror of wealth and the winner of gold. (8)
I salute those who do the deeds that inspire Rudra. I salute the Rudra Ganas who speak indecent words and the dogs with huge faces that help the hunting. (30)
The one who makes the pledge urges Shruti to recite. (2)
May Rohitdev satisfy your nation by keeping equal mind with the gods who revolve around the sun, who sustain the nation. (35)
O best of the embodied souls, the physical manifestation that is constantly changing is called adhibhūta; the universal form of God, which presides over the celestial gods in this creation, is called adhidaiva; I, who dwell in the heart of every living being, am called Adhiyajña, or the Lord of all sacrifices.
 O Mon! You are the one with great deeds, the poet, the navel of heaven, the extraordinary and the great. You are glorious by meeting in water. 
Soma is the king form and sits on the king's seat. The Kumbh of Sura has been established on the altar. There are uttarvedis between the two. A sieve has been installed in the form of a bhishak. (16)
O Mon called by many! Destroy the strength of the enemies whose force challenges us to the obstacle. 
Let the well-to-do, bright, joint-carrying and sun-lightened horses carry the famous Jupiter. They have power and a house worth living in. 
 O agni! You are the master of knowledge. You are going to take Havi to the gods. You are the messenger of the gods. I pray for your grace. 
O Raka Devi! The best of your intellects in the form of adornment and by which you give wealth to the host, come today with the same wisdom in a happy way. Oh, subhaga raka! Bum nourishes us in thousands of ways. 
Indra wished to find the head hidden in the mountain of the horse-related Dadhichi and got it in a pond called Shayanavati. 
Our father (ancestors) made heaven and earth beautiful at the beginning of creation. At the beginning of creation they expanded. The father followed all the senses like eye. The father patiently watered the earth with ghee. (25)
O pitro, called Agnishwat! Come here and accept the welcome, sit on your own asanas and eat the havyas spread over the kushas. After that, give us money with sons and grandsons. 
O praiseworthy! My mantras praise you. You want our progress to increase us. O Usha ladies! If you protect us, we will receive thousands and hundreds of money. 
 O Mon! You are a scholar. Friends, Varuna, Aryama and Marudagana please drink your juice. 
O Indra! The heavens and the earth follow your fast-moving creatures, just as father and mother follow the son. When you were destroying the demon Vritra, his malicious instincts were wishing for you to be destroyed. (2)
In the cow's trunk, this milk form is the first to ripen, we believe so. It is our idea that by cooking in the agni, it becomes very sacred and new. O Indra, who is a thunderbolt and a jeweler! Drink that milk of the yajna called The Median sawan. 
The Sun God, who appears in the sky and is the inspiration of all beings, has emerged. My veda voice wishing for my victory and defeat of my enemies has also been revealed. The way I become the one who wears the present gem becomes the one who kills the enemies, such a coincidence is present. I will be without enemies. Even if I have an enemy, I will defeat him. (5)
O Indra! You are called the one who desires Mon, you come before us. This squeezed mon you drink to your delight. You fill your abdomen with huge wombs with this mon. O Indra! Just as the Father hears the Word of the Son, so you listen to Our call. (2)
If you are unable to fix your mind steadily on me, O Arjun, then practice remembering me with devotion while constantly restraining the mind from worldly affairs.
Indra is a yajnakarmadhar, a giver of wealth, advanced by somras, the lord of the desired wealth and the one with more food. The money that benefits the stoetas goes near Indra in the same way that the flowing rivers meet in the sea. 
 Friends and Varun Devta are going to do good work. These gods should irrigate our group of cows with ghee milk. These gods should also water the hereafter with sweet juice 
Saraswati Devi is going to invoke Indra Dev. Saraswati Devi established valor in the senses for them. Ida Devi and Ashwinikumaras held energy and wealth for her. (58)
O brilliant Ashwinikumaro! You sit on a chariot and go to the house of the parrot like a dog. The bees fill your honey in their mouths in this way, just as the young woman is engaged in sexual intercourse. 
The yellow-coloured and radiant som falls into the dronkalash as a stream of nectar while providing the goyukta food. 
Hey friend and Varun! May food, divine sings and water please the hosts who receive your grace. The erstwhile guardians of our host should be fire donors. You both drink milk from the milch cow. 
O Vaishvanar Agni! Protect me by giving strength to my senses with all the gods. This havi is well done havan. (4)
I have seen the devayan routes that do not do violence and are refined by the intensifiers. The light that enlightened Usha was in the east direction. That Usha comes from the high places in front of us. 
Sages like Manu have fixed religious, dignity in the form of theft, guruwifery, brahmahatya, foeticide, alcoholism, false speech and sinful deeds. One who does not believe in this dignity is a sinner. A man who follows these seven limits attains Aditya located in the solar system after death and remains there till the holocaust period. (6)
O great agni! You tend to be more famous because of your bright sharpness. You do the same words as a bull from time to time. O great agni! You conceive in the same herbs as your sisters for the pleasure of Som etc. 
Those whose knowledge has been carried away by material desires surrender to the celestial gods. Following their own nature, they worship the devatās, practicing rituals meant to propitiate these celestial personalities.
I use the sweet words of the Rahuganasian Gautama Agni to praise him repeatedly with a virtuous hymn. 
O Indra! My father's field, the secret place of my body which is wrought due to skin defects, and the head of my father, make the field fertile and the other two with hair. 
O agni! The person who lives in his house with the best defenses, no one kills him. He who kills his enemies himself grows up and have brave children. 
The friends of the gods meet the Som Dashapavittra in such a way that the son comes into the arms of the protector's parents. Just as the jar man runs to get the woman, so so som goes towards Dronakalash. 
Som Raja is the cow to get grass straws. (23)
Hiranyakash, who vibrates electric agni clouds, is quick to accelerate and beautify the air and knows how to rain water from the cloud, like the annayukta, her work-engaged and straight-seated people, Usha does not know this work. 
O Indra! You are called from a distant, nearby or intermediate place. Come to this yagna from there for Sompan. 
 O hosts! Just as those who want food irrigate the field with water, similarly those who want force 
Jupiter Dev removed the rocks of the hidden cows in the mountain and saw them in the same way, just as when the water decreases, humans see the fish living in it. Just as chamas is taken out of the tree, in the same way, Jupiter Dev killed the asura who hid the cows and took the cows out. (7)
 O Usha! You are prakashvati. Please wake up all of us today as before. Please bless us as you did to Satyashrava, the son of the age. 
The celestial gods, being satisfied by the performance of sacrifice, will grant you all the desired necessities of life. But those who enjoy what is given to them, without making offerings in return, are verily thieves.
The fire that performs the yajna and the flames of the bright flames is adorned with burning like a friend. The well-lit fire ignites in the yagnas and awakens our travel-related pure intellect. 
O Indra! The force with which you created the water that fills the oceans is going to give us the desired fruit. Enemies cannot attain the glory of Indra. (7)
O Rudra! Greetings to you when you come in front of us and greeting you when you turn your back towards us. Greetings to you while standing up and sitting in your place. (15)
The agni of electricity received from the body of water located in the clouds is the owner of the herbs produced. May agni dev, the knower of the creatures born, give us the rain that gives life to the subjects and gives us the nectar of heaven. (10)
The screaming cow goes near the calf and smells it which looks at it. To tell that this calf is mine, this cow rambhati and grows it with its milk. (6)
All the things that have been brought and won by killing enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from the world. He should not be free from the bondage of the atharva gotra. We wrap his glory, life and age and drop him face down. (16)
O Savita Dev! You protect us and welfare us with our homes and your own resources. You're gold-tongued. We bow to you. (69)
Let the milch and sacrificial cow that comes to the yagna without prayer protect me from those who give a vow to Varuna and serve other gods through food. I praise that cow. 
O school! We are separating your firmly bound limbs. Give heaven to the one who created you. (10)
 O hosts! You are engaged in preparing somers. You present someras to the knight Indra. Someras is intoxicating. You run quickly and present it to Someras Indra. 
The supremely brilliant, immortal, the best of the host, the originating and the workman, the vaishwar grows in many kinds of abdomen, roaring like a agni lion. 
Eat vultures, hawks and other carnivorous birds to all our enemies who are sitting in chariots, who are chariotless, riding horses and those without horses. (24)
O you who have wealth, the knower of yajna, the knower of the sat-asat, the best of the gems who give the gems, located in the cavity, the seeable of all, the more word-doers, the agni that takes refuge in shobhan-yajnakarta and ghee! Hosts praise you. 
The red colored mons are going to Dronakalash. After this, the wishful and the relaxed Som goes near Indra and sits in a certain place. 
We return your mind that has gone far and wide on the earth of the slope around. You live to inhabit this world. 
The substances brought to the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not be freed from the moderate loops of the night and day. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (25)
We call the desireful and watery cloud and air and Indra, Varuna, Aryama, Aditiputra Devas and Devmata Aditi. We also call the gods in the earth, the sky and the water. 
With more water, adorned with fillers, adorned with fillers, adorned with adornments, bright-shaped, masters of decayless wealth, those of good birth, those who hold a golden necklace on the chest from birth and the revered deserts come from heaven to receive nectar. 
O Indra! Let all hosts end their yajna on you. Those who satisfy you are twice as much as a wife and three times as a child. You meet us with the most beloved offspring born of the beloved wife, by house, wealth, etc. Make our beloved child cradle with even more grandchildren, etc. 
O Indra praised by many! You become bright. You kill your enemies alone to control the winning riches and the praises that are worth hearing. 
We offer our praises to the pavaman somrupi indra in the same way that the arrow is placed on the bow. Just as the calf is born to drink the milk of the cow's trunk, so so is the origin of Som for Indra's intoxication. Just as the milch cow comes in front of the calf and gives milk, in the same way Indra comes in front of the stoetas and fulfills various desires. Som is required in indra's yajnas. 
 Som destroys the violent. They also persecute to cause pain. They keep them in limits. They are very powerful and capable. 
When the Somras go to Indra like the rivers leading to the sea or like the drains leading to the pond, the meritorious Brahmins raise Indra in the yajna like barley increased by the divine waters of the rain. 
Tell me of the God in whose body all the thirty-three gods are encompassed, who is He? (13)
Meritorious men, who block virtues in medicines,  praise agni with flowers, fruits etc., present in the yagyagriha in the middle of water, first praise Agni, the giver of knowledge and the lord of all food, and then perform actions. 
Maruto, the son of Rudra, with a glorious abode! You come by chariots whose wheels have a glorious glow. O Maruto, who is anointed by many! Be kind to me in my heart and bring food to me today. 
The sun is covered on the radiant water. When the sun adds horses with beautiful backs to its chariot, the dhir host brings them like a boat on the water and the water body obeying the sun is bowed down. 
O agni! While praising, we protect the yajnakartas. O you are among those who call the gods! Protect us while speaking mantras. O agni, bound by the maruts and the giver of thousands of riches! Increase our happiness. 
For this sun, the wise people begin the yajnakarma. Ushari's mothers weave stunning clothes for this. Happy with the meeting of the rainy sun, the rays of the wife come to us from the way to the sky. 
Some fathers are squeezed to some of the somras and some consume ghee. O ghost! You go to the fathers for whom honey flows. 
O wise, born in this way, too great and fierce to defeat the enemies! We serve you to gain strength, money and defense in wars. 
O housegivers! giver and destroyer of great wealth, be our protectors and save us from the immoral Vrak. 
O agni with riches! All the best wealth is born of you. Just as branches are produced from trees, so you produce a group of animals, the power that conquers enemies in battle, and rain quickly from the sky. You produce water by being praiseworthy of all. 
O God! I may or may not have been giving the food that I have been giving to the owner of the food, but I promise to give it to him. May that food be happy and sweet for me with the immense glory of Vaishvanar Dev. (3)
For this Idra, Vishwakarma had made a weapon named Vajra, which is very worthy of shobhan and praise. This thunderbolt has been constructed for war and to stop the invading enemies. Swami Indra, the swami of all, struck in the inner place of vritra demon with this thunderbolt. (6)
The sun shines on heaven with the help of its brightness. Thus, while attaining the rise, the Sun has become the swami of all other gods. (25)
At the advent of Brahma’s day, all living beings emanate from the unmanifest source. And at the fall of his night, all embodied beings again merge into their unmanifest source.
We should get back the life, air and soul that enter the body through the mouth and nose. Eyes and life get us back. The well-wishers of human beings around the world, who are not defeated by disease etc. and the guardians of the body are located in our body. They should destroy all the sins caused by the disease. (2)
When you were destroying the tree, the protective forces that were inspired here were making you unprivileged, devoid of old age, good in chariots, quick conquering, unbeatable and growing. (3)
O agni! Take these samidhas with ghee that calm the trisha. The demon who desires the flesh of this man should turn away from his work. (15)
This king is pleasing Indra with great hymns with the desire to attain heaven. Indra, the swami of heaven, completes the world with water by showering water through clouds. (8)
O hosts! They are going to receive agni. There are chances of accepting Mon. They are with great intellect. You purify your mind for them. You purify your intellect for them. From this, horses get irrigable bulls and beautiful objects. (78)
There are hundreds of names of medicines. They have the same qualities as the mother. They have hundreds of dhams. They are going to perform hundreds of yagnas. Please strengthen our organs. (76)
 O Indra! You drink somers. It was only after being intoxicated by Someras that you destroyed Shambar for Divodas. 
 O agni! You are a human being. We request you to deliver havi to the gods. You are holy. Please make us happy. 
Jupiter is worthy of worship in the wartime with a call and salutations. They go to the aid of the devotee in the struggle and give all kinds of money. Just as the chariots of enemies are destroyed in war, jupiter misleads the shanru armies who want victory. 
Beautiful, unruly and dormant agni-speeders have been called to destroy the enemies of the host. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Sit on your chariot with gold-made chariots and golden reins. 
Oh, lingering Mon! Evil-minded monsters cannot bear this deed of yours. Whoever wants to fight you, hinder him. 
Hey Mon! Just as sing with the beautiful grass and men are pleased to live in their house, so be satisfied with the promise we have given us and dwell in our hearts. 
Many people who want to see the bride will see this barat. May they provide excellent happiness for this bride. (73)
Soma with all the gods, protect me from the demons etc. located in the north direction. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way in heaven through Havi. O Gods! Become the one who gets a part in this yajna. (28)
The fast-moving Krishna Asura lived as radiant on the banks of the Anshumati river. Indra, with the help of Jupiter, killed Kali and the invading armies. 
 O Vajradhari Indra! Hosts give you havi. They are the ones who present somerasa to you. Stota 
Anghabi pakva bhaat roop charu containing ground wheat beans and mixed with honey should be kept in the western part of the bones in this work. We welcome the deities who are present here from indra etc. who have created heaven for the ghost who is being cremated. (22)
After opening the boat tied to the trees of the coast with the help of rope, just as it flows down along the stream of the river instead of getting the shore, in the same way, my enemies should face down and flow in the flow of the river, because the enemies under the influence of peepal produced in the khadir tree are not saved. (7)
We call the supremely powerful Indra to protect ourselves at the beginning of each yagna and in the various struggles that interfere with our yajnas in the same way as one calls his friend. 
Arjun said: The system of Yog that you have described, O Madhusudan, appears impractical and unattainable to me, due to the restless mind.
O demon related to Durnam disease! Do not hesitate between the thighs of this pregnant woman and do not even enter them. Do not even slip downwards of the thighs of the pregnant woman. The medicine I prepare in the form of white mustard related to this womb is going to destroy the disease. (3)
Aditya sits on the fire-shaped Kush, thousands of heroes and facing east. The ritwiz spreads it through mantras. 
O Darknessashini and Mahishalini Mahadevi Usha! You all enable the world to wake up and see. O Ratnaswamini! We beg of you. May we love you as a son to the mother. 
Hey, Pret! you go to the pitars 
Who leaves you? Why does he leave you? He leaves you to others (priests and their kin). The part that is residual is for nurturing demons. (23)
May Indra, who showers desires, be superior to all gods. We make Indra powerful to destroy the vritra demon. (1)
O Mon! You are the forerunner among those who live in the pole (stable) and the earth. You are famous as Shruvatam. You are everyone's native place and shelter. We bow down to you with a pole mind. Indra Dev, we bow to you with a good heart including wife and children. (25)
 O agni! You remove obstacles and darkness. You make the world strong with the offerings of light and host ghee. You go upwards and accept that ghee offerings. 
He uproots the air. (4)
Oh, God! Drive out this escapeable pigeon by mantras. Let's take the cow towards the grass with joy. Let this dove, which flies very soon, disappear all our sins and leave our grain and fly away. 
Those who are joined by a charioteer named Duryuz should never grow old. The clouds are the ones that make the giver rich in many foods. (7)
O water god! You are extremely well-being. O water god! You should strengthen that juice by consuming it just like mothers strengthen the child with milk juice. (52)
He who attaches these bones without sticking and piercing, who reconnects the torn and provides good and sufficient wealth, is God. (47)
O Indra! You don't leave the great protectors, so you are certainly great. O you who call the maruts! May you grant us the most beloved happiness by being kind to us. 
Which is the chest forest, which is the tree from which God created heaven and earth. Ask the minds of the mystics where che himself is installed, holding all the bhuvanas. (20)
O fire! Encourage our mantras. Let the earth, sky and self-flowing rivers encourage us by giving us ghee, milk, barley, wheat, etc. May the red-colored ushas always give us the best food. 
Who knows Indra, who has beautiful jaws, those who drink somras and drink soma with the sages when the somras are gone, and who gives them food for them? 
This is a wishful and rich Ashwini Kumar! We praise you and ask you for limited and more money than the limit. 
Kumar Indra, with a small body like a child, sits on the admirable chariot. Indra inspires the cloud of many acts to rain like the mrigshawak who runs around in front of the great and parents. 
 O Mon! You make us Goans and Horses. You get a holy white color by mixing it in cow's milk. 
The chakra of Indra which is located in the sky gives honey to Indra. O Indra! The milk that you have installed on the earth in the creeper, grass, etc., comes out of the trunks of the cows in the form of milk. 
O rich fire! Call the gods for the welfare of the host who has raised the khuch today. Extend the earlier yajna for the host who squeezed the som and gave the havan in the yajna. 
O God of Agni! You bless me with glory and give me children. All gods know this feeling of mine. Along with the sages, Indra also knows this feeling of mine. (47)
O you who are unholy and domineering adityas! To all human beings, which you bring to the end of the work you have begun, he gets the fruit. 
All praise the strength of Pushadeva, who is born for the welfare of many hosts. No one ends up praising them, nor opposes their force. That is why I also praise The God who is ready to protect from the desire for happiness, the creator of happiness, the lord of the yagna and who is united with the mind of all human beings. 
The Maruts made the praiseors the wind, electricity, etc., with their power by making the rich, the clouds, etc., tremble and the violent, and the violent. After this, the maruts who went in all the four directions and shook everyone milked the clouds of the sky and irrigated the earth with the water that came out. 
O Mother Earth (God)! The medicines produced in you should not be harmed because of us. Havan is being performed for the gods. The soil has been removed (by digging) for that. O soil! You go to the enclosure of cows. May heaven shower his grace on you. O Savita! You are a earthy foster. You tie the hair to hundreds of your loops to hate us and do not free them. (25)
If, motivated by pride, you think, “I shall not fight,” your decision will be in vain. Your own material (Kshatriya) nature will compel you to fight.
Fruitless, fruitless, flowerless and flowery herbs produced from Jupiter protect us from disease. 
O Lord Indra! Let your relatives and support deserts never destroy us. O mankind-benevolent Indra! We give all the properties to the mantra seers. 
Tell us about the unlimited God for whom the gods always give gifts through hands, feet, speech, ears and eyes, who is he? (39)
These agnis are capable of adornment, the lord of great fortune, the lord of the cow and the wealth with the best children and are capable of destroying the enemy sins. 
Mons with bright, shining radiance and a stream of words all around are found in cow's milk. 
O protector and master of honey, Aschinikumaro! When someras are dispelled by your desire, I praise you with the desire for wealth. May your healthy horses bring you here. You drink the somras well squeezed by us. 
 O agni! You are specially illuminated in the womb of Mother Earth and are seated in the role of father in space. The agni is revered on the altar in yajna. 
O lord of horses named Hari, Indra with shobhan stotra, with beautiful wealth and with huge radiance! The Psalms have protected themselves and others through your adornment praises. 
O fire! Because you are the lord of Eve and the messengers of the gods, be the protector of your servant host. 
O fire! The ornate Kanvavanshis call you and beg for protection by being armed and laying a cushion. 
O water god! You are a benefactor. Get us succulent and your welfare juices. Get us the juice with which you decay (diseases). Please get us the useful juice. (51)
The upahavya, the somayag named Vishuvan and the somayag who is not known, the sustainer of the world and the follower of the ritual of sawanyagya is Brahma in the form of Yajnashesh. (15)
O hosts and priests! Your business is the same. Your hearts are the same and your mind is the same. You guys be organized in uniform. 
O powerful earth! Give this hungry food. O water-rich earth! Provide water for the retirement of this thirsty person. On praying, give it food. May Vishwa Dev, Marudagan and Water God give strength to it. (5)
We, like the ancient sages, increase the glory of the most powerful and ancient Indra by very innovative praises. May Indra, who is without borders and a shobno vehicle, keep us safe from all sins. 
Indra, the enemy of the one who does not praise, knows Uqth while being sung. At that time the songable anthem is sung. 
O Indra! Our SOM is laced with cow's milk. You come to us to drink him. Your chariots to which horses have been added, those chariots want to come to our yagna. (1)
O God! The messenger pigeon sent by the sin god has come to our house wishing to afflict us. To return it, we worship you through Havi. Let the welfare of our dupas i.e. heirs and chaupayas i.e. animals. (1)
Produced with the help of excessive force and capable of burning immortal agni. At the time when Agni, who invoked the gods, became an angel to carry the host's havya, agni went through the proper way and made space loka. They serve the gods by donating a havya in the agni yajna. 
As soon as he is present near, desirous of praising Indra and praising the stoetas living in the host's house, Indra should come and help us in the war. Indra belongs to hosts and has intolerable anger. 
O bright agni god! You are the witnesses of men and the virtuous deeds. The wise ritvis who hold you become the ones with good attention. 
O Indra! We ask you for gold by filling ten pitchers. You give us more than that. 
O Shami with big leaves, growing only with rainwater and a good luck indicator! Just as the mother raises sons, so increase our hair. (3)
We stotas, who desire food, call the enemy-destroyer and the famous Indra along with the maruts in this yajna. O Indra! Just as the ancient hymns were born without condemnation, sin and violence, so too are we. 
O learned angel of yajna, the knower of the works, well acquainted with the middle part of the earth and the sky, the old, capable of overdoing a little human being, the most learned and the messengers of the gods, the agni! You climb the stairs of heaven to give glory to the gods. 
O Indra and Varuna! For your purpose, I offer an uncultured praise from demons and with a bright element like Usha Devi, throwing the offering of Som in the agni. Protect us in the battle of Indra and Varan. 
O agni! You are an astrologer from jyoti. You are dominated by domination. You are the one who gives a thousand splendours for thousands. (40)
O agni! You are vishnu's padmanyas and shatrunashi. Please stick to gayatri verses and imitate the earth. You are going to destroy the pride of vishnu dev and enemy. Please stick to the Trishtup verses and imitate the space. You are the destroyer of vishnu and the destroyer of those who do not behave. Please stick to the worldly verses and follow the heavens. You are vishnu's ascetic and enemy destroyer. Please stick to the verses and follow all directions. (5)
O Ashwinikumaro! They were ploughed happily and the working horses should bring your chariot here when it is morning. Carry forward the chariot with soothing rays and rich with the help of the ass that which give you water. 
We call Indra, the one who redeems from sin, the one who is invoking the adornment and the one with the adornment of the deeds, in all the yagnas. We call upon agni, mitra, varuna, bhaga, dyava-prithvivi and maruts to become an annalabh and avinashi. 
O agni! It is through your prosperity that Indra, adi dev, becomes visible and receives nectar while wearing love. Those who want fruits serve the agni in the form of giving a havan for the welfare of the host. 
Black animals are for land, huge animals for smoke-like space for heaven, multicolored animals for electricity and leprosy animals for stars. (10)
O Maruto! You did a lot of work for the welfare of our fathers. The ancient works that are praised by you were also done by you. With your help, the brilliant people defeat the enemies in the war and the stota gets food. 
O great, the food and the powaman som! Serve the gods in our yajna, conquer the enemies and give us credit. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The ways by which you made the master of wealth and the unable to walk Vipassala complete with thousands of properties and able to go into the struggle, and protected the sage by the son of the praise of the sage Ashwa, by the same means, come here. 
O Sahartu Indra and Indra with wealth of anaroopi! These mons are squeezed. Hold them in your stomach. 
 O Indra! You are viva. Without reverence for you, man cannot get that superior food. Whoever does not add horses of his praise to get Indra, Indra has also not added Hari and other horses to go to his yagna. 
You protect our age. You protect our lives. You protect our people. You protect our business. You protect our eyes. You protect our ears. You make our speech sweet. You make our minds win. Yoga the soul. Provide light. (17)
O agni, the son of strength and lord of the world! Give us money. God also give us money. 
 O Mon! You drench us with holy streams. You fill us with money. By consuming your juice, the sun also becomes light and dynamic like air. Indra gives us leadership power by drinking somers, gives us good children. 
O agni! You are shining. You are adorned with wisdom. You also illuminate heaven. You are a gopati and immortal. You find an increase in yajna yourself. We come to you through worship. (23)
Rays worthy of praise appear. Usha has filled the world with as much as the current of rain. 
O man who wears a gem of the open name! May the bull protect you with cows and the horses capable of breeding protect you with horses. Protect you through the action of the vayu devta yajna nakshatra, who roams in space. May Indra devta protect you with the senses. (1)
The one who hangs the ornaments in the thighs does not attain opulence. The one who wants to sit is capable of having a limb. Indra is the best. (16)
In the world where shobhan heart, shobhan gyan and shobhan karma people are happy by sacrificing diseases like fever etc. from their body, the cow giving birth to twins has come. He should not do violence to our men and animals. (6)
H Amapasya and Purnima enter Aditya. Sacrifice is the imperishable of them. (9)
Indra Dev has destroyed the cities of enemies with his revered force and has completely violence the enemies. Indra has extended the day that destroys darkness through rays. Indra has received the wealth of enemies and has especially committed violence against their sons etc. Indra, rich in wealth by the body that has attained growth due to adequate hymns, has pervaded both the earth and the sky. (1)
In which all the subjects are threaded and who knows this spread formula i.e. thread. The one who knows the Sutra i.e. God, who is made due to the detailed formula of the world, knows the great Brahman or he is the knower of the huge Veda mantras. (37)
O Jataveda and special seer Agni! You're gonna give me a donation. I create praises for you. 
Oh, God! Make my food praise true. Protect me by your moves to the hymn. My shanrus are destroyed. Listen to My word that pleases everyone. 
O Indra! All the Kanvagotriya sages increase your intellect and purushartha. O the most powerful Indra! They also increase your power. 
O deserters! All the welfare items are placed on your chariots. Your arms are present one by one powerful weapons. All resting places have food items for you. The wheels of your chariots rotate with the axles. 
Hey Mon! You are the great ones, the ones who please the gods and the most praiseworthy. O Pawman Mon! You are very energetic among the people with furious force. You won their wealth while fighting with your enemies. 
O aschinikumaro! You made the old sage so powerful that he could walk like a horse by performing yajna. You made the sage Kambivana young in the same way that the carpenter renews the old chariot. 
O Vishnu! I speak the word for you from my mouth in the yajna. O bright Vishnu!  You accept our havya. Let the sentences of our adornment increase yours. Oh, God! You always follow us by means of well-being. 
Brahman attained the face of Maya in the same way as the husband goes in front of the wife. Brahma received Maya in the same way as a husband receives his wife from home. Who were the bonds of the bride's side in Brahma's desire to create creation? Who were the ones who chose the girl? Who was the chief groom at that time? (1)
O ghost! I install you in a pitra devta named Swadha located in the upward direction. I am already covered with a blanket. Just as the earth donated to Brahmins by those who do virtue follows heaven located in the upward direction, so swadha devi follow you. As the fruit of virtue, I worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! You become participants in this yajna. (35)
Hey Aditya! Destroy our enemies and sinners, and destroy this net and the sin that is spread everywhere. 
Lakes being filled with potable water, being a donor when rich and being a beautiful girl, being eligible for household dharma - such kalpa is according to the texts. (9)
Where Brahmins and Kshatriyas live together. Where the devas live with the agni god, we should find that virtuous knowledgeable world. (25)
O sing! May your place of stay be pleasant. You become rich in my cattle shed like a shy creature growing as thousands in a moment. You produce children here. I will keep you with me. (5)
I destroy all those demons named Palal, Anuplal, Sharku, Kok, Malimluch, Palijak, Ashresh, Vabrivas, Rikshgreva and Pramili who hurt the pregnant woman. (2)
 O Indra! You are vajradhari and strong. Somerus is virtuous. In these prayers, we have described the qualities of Someras. May our enemies be destroyed on earth. Complete self-rule should be established. 
Somerus flows. The holy Soma flows in it. For Brahmins, this som flows. For Kshatriyas, this som flows. This som flows for energy. This som flows for the drug. This som flows for heaven and earth. This SOM flows for a good feeder. This som flows for the world. It is the original place for the world. All the gods should sit at the place designated for themselves in the Yagyashala. (21)
O agni! You are endowed with admired, great, sacred and divine qualities. Please pave the way by spreading a lot of red smoke. (37)
Hey Varun and my friend! We will be going to praise you by taking the ritwijs along with us. Oh, God! Let's hold food and water. 
O god of adornment! May our place of residence be safe when you come. You destroy our sin. 
O bright and leader, Raghu.o! You produce crops like barley etc. for the animals at higher places like Meru, etc., and fill the lower places with water with the desire for shobhan karma. As long as you stayed in Aditya Mandal, don't stay hidden for as long as you have been. 
O dead! You discard your worn main garment. The desires for which you gave money to your brothers, as the result of that favored deed, the stepwell, well, pond etc. should be received. (57)
O adhwaryu! Offer somras to Indra, consisting of kanvagotriya sages. We don't know anyone more successful than Indra, who is very powerful and with hundreds of defense tools. 
O Indra, lord of wealth and recognized by human beings! You went to sage Kutsa with the desire to give money. The dog begged you to fight his enemy. You saved him from the attack of the enemy, and you killed the shanru of the dog in battle, being unsavoury and inferior to the deceitful deeds. 
O Pawman Mon! You enter Indra's belly by growing your lot of streams. Just as electricity exploits the clouds, you give us more food by exploiting the earth through your deeds. 
Where arrows fall as if children without braids fall, may Indra Dev give us happiness. May Jupiter give us happiness. May Aditi Dev give us happiness. May Swami Dev give us happiness. (48)
O Indra! Your strength is full of desire, which created enough water of the sea. Your glory is not the limit. The earth follows the same glory. 
O man wounded by arms! Your part which is injured and burning with the pain of arms attack and your part which has been broken by the attack of Mugdar etc., the creator should connect those parts of yours with lac. (2)
O agni! Just as a wife who desires her husband and has adornment robes places the husband next to her, so we fix the north altar form for you. O agni of the best deeds! You sit in front of us surrounded by gods. All praise will be in front of you. 
 O Indra! You are the husband of heaven and eternal. You are the one who holds the cities, destroys the bandits and increases the morale. 
O very sweet juiced and intoxicating mon! You come to Indra. 
 Heaven is holy. Someras is the one who gives joy in heaven. The holy and filtered Somerus has the power to illuminate the sun. 
Saraswati Devi gave the seat of Kush for Dev Sudev Indra and Ashshvinikumaras. Ashwini Kumars established tej in Indra Dev. Ashwini kumars established evil in the eyes of Indra Dev. Indra Dev is rich. Hold money for us. The guests desirous of money should please perform yagna for him. (48)
O Sacrificial God! Please protect the animals giving ghee etc. (useful for havi). These animals should be dear to the host. Live in their beloved abode. These animals should be compatible with the host. Please protect the host. In this yajna, please expand it with havi. May yajnapati live for years. They do welfare. Swaha to the gods. (11)
In a tricircular form, three capable golds come on one letter and become powerful. Let them destroy all sins and end your death through nectar. (8)
 O sun! You are going to fly in the sky like a bird. You're velocity. You are going to nurture everyone. Varuna has an emissary. You are loved by people 
O Indra! With the support of the sages, give us ghost food and wealth for the sake of yajna. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky should worship our wealth and food. 
O o o ladies! Please increase each other's influence. May all medicines be kind to cooperate and listen to our words. (88)
 O Mon! You come from the thick streams to the host's matkas. Please the Indra, whom even the deserts serve. Increase the power of Indra and fulfill the wishes of the hosts. 
O Indra! You are going to behave the same way towards many hosts. That's why we call you. 
This gem with divine qualities made from vegetation will save my mother, my father, my brother and me from all the sins committed. (8)
O agni! Please wake up and fulfill the wish of the host. You give all the happiness to the host. O Vishvo! Please establish the host in heaven forever. (61)
O sing! You eat increased juice in a grassy place. The grass that is grown in the yagyashala or milking place, you should eat it. Your milk is the medicine of our body. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
No one can hinder the sun living nearby, unbonded and upward-facing.  With what power does the sun move? The sun like the pillars of the sky follows heaven, who has seen it? 
O God Maruto! You, more than the praises, let us equip those who praise with bounty, wealth and gems, and accept our hymn in our form. You have always been donating gems to us. 
Friends, eyes of Varuna and Agni, clusters of rays and amazing suns have risen. He has completed the earth, the sky and the middle part of the two with glory. They are movable and immovable forms. 
O God! Get a group of cows to the people who wish for these cows. You're famous in a distant country. 
O Indra and Brihaspati, the creators of Somapana! You two come to our house to drink somerus. 
 O Indra! You are rich and extraordinary. We don't have any money that we can gift you. Please give us plenty of money with open hands. 
The wide sky has bowed down before Indra and the earth is struck by the select hymns. Even the hosts who have taken good fortune are in front of Indra to get food and fame, all the gods have kept you before them with a happy heart. It is for the happiness of Indra that people perform all the yagnas and donations. 
O agni that shines day and night! Many people serve you every day in this world. Let us also serve you with a happy heart by doing the properties of the Gentlemen in our possession by your grace and playing with our sons and grandsons in our homes. 
 O Indra! O agni! Please come to humans with those dynamic means of yours. You both come to drink somers. 
O night! Make me the master of rich wealth and son, grandson etc. By your grace, May I also become the benefactor of the gods, O Darvi, that is, the instrument of havan! You should be complete with havi and go to the gods and from there take the fruits of our mind and come to us. (7)
 O agni! You are immortal. You ignite. You increase our wealth. You wear a stunning form in the yajna. You are adorned with a full eye on our yajna. 
O double god of agni! The host who lights you around with woods according to the classical dignity in his yajnagriha and the wishers greet you every day, you increase his food. The man who inspires the warlike man, including the chariot, into the rann, receives the male wealth. 
O shatabana gi! May your feet, your knees, your hips and reproductive organs always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (21)
After this, I see and hear that the spoken words are being received by my speech. I imagine that it is only by the arrival of those waters that I have received nectar. O golden-colored burn! I am satisfied with your consumption. (6)
Hey Mon! Come before us for our victory, indestructible, non-violence and yajna. All my friends want to protect you. O Pawman Mon! I want to protect you too. 
This is the hymn! Praise Indra. He gives money to the sinless and is charitable. Indra's donation is beneficial. Indra inspires his mind to give money for the host, does not hinder his desires. 
O Vajradhari and Lord of the Yajna Indra! You break down the fortified cities of the enemies. O indra who does not bow down! You end the maya of the enemies. 
O Indra! We are yours and praise you. O Indra, who has been called by many and riches! No one is going to give happiness except you. 
O global agni! You are the lord of the people, the leader of the wealth, and the ketu of the ushas and the days. The sinless and human praises of the horse and the human beings, while wishing you, serve you. 
O act! Those who built you have made you two-legged or four-legged. If you are coming near us, then become eight feet and return from here. (24)
 Indra is the destroyer of the cities of enemies and the youth. He is a poet, a powerful, a vishwapalak, a forester and a pioneer. 
O thunderbolt Indra! The creation of your friendship and wealth is very joyful. Your yajna is especially elaborateable. 
The air is fierce, Bhim, the one who makes a loud word, the one who defeats all who shivers and attacks the enemies. There are those who can break away enemies. We dedicate sacrifices to those air. (7)
The Indus ploughs a chariot with pleasures and horses. He should provide food through that chariot. The glory of this chariot is sung in the yajna. This chariot is undefeated, independent of glory and great. 
By listening to the predestined and meritorious praise of the age, agni has created this human being and has pervaded the sky of the covered glory. The ritwijs have held on to the money-giving agni. 
O heroic and sovereign agni! Listen to our new praises and burn the elusive monsters with your warmth. 
After eating the grass, Indra's horses utter the words and hinhin and breathe loudly. Indra has always won the property of enemies with the help of them. Indra is a karmic and giver. They have given us a chariot of gold. 
O Gods! Please stay in your ashram and your periphery (maryada). We worship you all with your voice. You sit on the seat of Kush and be happy. Swaha to all of you. (18)
Oh, a deathless agni! Increase our wealth by jealous of your enemies. You are adorned with adornment and touch the yajna that gives all the fruits. 
O King Varuna! Save me from a friend who says terrible things of the dream. Save me from thieves and wolves who commit violence. 
Like the kings who gather in war, the person who has all the herbs is called a Brahmin or a bhishka. He destroys diseases. 
O you are the most beautiful and gloriously enchanting air! Just as the somras are called to squeeze the stone, so in the yajna we call you. 
The yogis who have conquered the mind rise above the dualities of cold and heat, joy and sorrow, honor and dishonor. Such yogis remain peaceful and steadfast in their devotion to God.
O school! I enter you without violence. If you are facing west, I will face east and enter you. Agni and water originating from Brahman also enter you with me. (22)
The honey that is in the mountains, in the hilly regions, in the cows and in the horses, the honey that is in the water flowing downwards, that honey should be located in me. (18)
O maruto with beautiful ordnances and with a special radiance! The vibrations that occur when you come, all the islands fall, the trees are in real sorrow, both the dawa-earth tremble, and the moving water begins to flow. 
These sacrifices are offered to the thirty-four gods who extend this yajna, who provide nutritious food to the hosts. The money we hold through tasks like yajna, we spend it on such auspicious works. May this sacrifice please the gods to satisfy them. (61)
O Ashwinikumaro! You extinguished the fire to save the Atri, who was locked up in the Shatdwara tormentorium, and gave them a pleasant meal. You accepted the praise and gave eyes to the sage Kanva lying in the dark. 
O diseased man! For your longevity, we cover you with red color like a cow. This man should be free from the yellow color of the body caused by diseases like Kabala etc. (2)
Usha, the daughter of heaven and the one who follows the Bhuvanas, identifies the creatures and goes to the five varnas, doing industry even though she is located in a distant country. 
O agni! You filled the earth as soon as you were born bright by the light. O Vaishnavar Jataveda! You have redeemed the gods from the enemies by your own importance. 
O Indra! In the house of the host in which you are satisfied with the food, you establish worldly and divine wealth in it. You keep the creator of all of you, The Diva-Prithvi, moving, so you get many cosmic and Vedic deeds. 
Come to us for the purpose of protecting the vast Saraswati river and Indra from the water. Be happy for us together with the sagely herbs and let the agni be able to call us as happy, as the Father, with praise and joy. 
O famous agni! Give the wise giver thousands of riches and riches with brave children. 
O thunderbolt Indra! I add your crest horse to your chariot with the help of a hymn-like mantra. Go home holding the rods of horses in both arms. You are mated with the squeezed sharp mon and get the mod with your beloved. 
The one who brings food for the guest receives the havi. (3)
O huge forest! You are destroyed when you see it. Why don't you ask for a way to the village? Aren't you afraid here alone? 
O agni! You are going to follow the sacrifice. You are everywhere in the form of gastritis in humans. You are worthy of praising yajnas like Darshan, Pournamas etc. (1)
Just as the water flowing downwards goes into the ocean, in the same way, indra gets the yajna done by the desire of food through ukth mantras. (2)
O Lord of infinite power, my salutations to you from the front and the rear, indeed from all sides! You possess infinite valor and might and pervade everything, and thus, you are everything.
He carries by shaf i.e. hoof. (7)
O god! You protect power. You be distinguished in the battle for the good mind of the gods. Just as you wish for a happy life of father and son, you try for us, so do it for us, both the acharyas of both Ashwinikumar Devas establish you here. (3)
Moon is the ruler of the constellations. He is in this Vedokta Paurohitya karma, in prestige, in resolve. Protect me in karma and blessings in karma. (10)
We should never be disturbed while walking, sitting or standing with our right or left foot. (28)
O Brihaspati, O Indra, O Savita Dev! Do not make this bride the destroyer of your brother, husband, animal etc. Get it in the form of sons, wealth etc. (62)
They should get the sorrows with contaminated names for this evil enemy, the objections to the abdominal diseases growing like a pitcher, the contaminated diseases of the body and the deadly diseases. (7)
Hear from me briefly, O Arjun, and I shall explain how one, who has attained perfection (of cessation of actions), can also attain Brahman by being firmly fixed in transcendental knowledge.
 O Ashchini Kumaro! Your chariot holds splendour and might. Your chariot is adorned with the prayers of the worshippers. Please listen to our prayers. 
Swaha for housewife agni. Swaha for vegetative MON. Swaha for the energetic Desert. Swaha to Indra Dev, the sense power giver. O Mother Earth! We should not resort to violence against you. O Mother Earth! Don't do violence against us. (23)
What was the evidence at the time when all the gods performed the yajna of Prajapati? What was the god at that time? What were the fruits, the ghrit, the samidahas, the verses and the ukthamtra of that yajna? 
Hey Mon! Together with the fathers, you expand the dyava-prithvivi. Let us serve you through havi and become masters of wealth. 
O Swami of speech Brahma Dev! Come to me with a divine mind. O Swami of life Brahman! Make me happy by giving me the desired results. Give me the wisdom to wear the Vedas I have studied. (2)
 O agni! May man ignite you to get the heroic Son. Always do havan with havan substances. May you always attain ultimate happiness by your grace. 
Shobhankarma Tvashta had given Indra the properly made, well-groomed and thousand-edged vajra, which indra had picked up in order to destroy the enemy in the battle, indra hit the vrithra stopping the rainwater and dropped the water current stopped by him downwards. 
Spring etc. seasons tied this gem and chaitra etc. months originating from the seasons have tied this gem. Samvatsar protects all beings by tying this gem. (18)
 Somers Argyk 
O man of effort! You go ahead with this animal dharma. Call your loved ones too. May all the husbands who have done this work before have the same fruit and you. (1)
Indra etc. devs had hidden this beloved gem secretly in the Palash tree due to giving the desired results. May the gods increase my life and give me that leafy for the sake of maintenance. (3)
O God of agni! Those who want to avoid animals, demons, vampires, etc. and leave them and run at the same speed as the sun and the animals that roam in rivers and pilgrimages, under your influence, I kill those demons etc. and join those animals. (5)
Jupiter rises with the energy generated from the juice of food, provides tvashta confirmation and Vishme Dev provides perfection. (2)
O Indra! You also kill a powerful man and take possession of his wealth. We ask you for money, which is full of cow etc. (3)
O well-called agni! Be your hymns everyone's beloved. Those who donate money to humans and cows, also be dear. 
Navel Vidriti, Semen Ghrit, Dish Jal Dev, Basa Marichi Dev, Body's Heat Dew Dev, Fat Shani Dev, Tear Spray Dev Are Related to Veduni Sky Electric God. Blood particles are related to Raksha Dev, various body parts, various gods, physical beauty, nakshatra devas and skin earth goddess and skin jumbak dev. (9)
The sages protected the dead cow for a year, preserving the predicament of its body for a year. For one year the sages kept the ingredients of the cow. Through these works, the sages got immortal status. 
O Shoban Dan Wale Maruto! Let the water of the clouds related to you, electricity, clouds filled with water and thick water streams like pythons flow on the earth. (9)
O Indra! Please make us Indramay. Please hold wealth for us, make us rich, bless us and make our hopes come to fruition. You bless us, earth is like mother. We have worshipped Mother Earth. We ignite the agni of yajna. You make us as bright as yourself, we dedicate sacrifices to you for the public interest. (10)
Swaha for the agni that makes sacrifices for the ancestors. Swaha for Mon, the companion of the ancestors. Asuras and demons have been removed from the altar of yajna. (29)
O Ashchini Kumaro! It is with Havi Dhan. It is accumulated by stom i.e. mantra group dharma. This Som is full of sweetness. You know the necessary enemy through this somerasa. (4)
Like a ripe fruit tree and a war-winning hero skilled in ordnance, we admire Indra, who has been praised by the new sages in many ways and called by many hosts, just as the kaami man praises a beautiful woman. 
O Indra! You are the lord of the chariot along with the horses. The sages of the gottam gotra have said mantras of praise to you to call you to their yajna. You make them progress in many ways. Indra, who receives wealth through wisdom, should come early in the morning. 
Both conscious and unconscious beings reside between the earth and the sky. May the sky and earth with great deeds and the seven types of water that flow free us from sins. (45)
We call indra, the leader of the world, the leader of the rich, the leader of the world, the hearers of praise, the enemies fierce, the demon destroyers in the war and the winner of the wealth of enemies. 
These Indras, influenced by the true praises of the Angiragotrian sages who performed yajna with the desire for the salvation of the cows surrounded by the mountain, broke the mountain that helped the asuras and fought the pangs with their famous weapons. 
May Aryama, who know the best place, have equal love with the gods like Varun, Mitra and Indra etc. to take us to the destination by the simple way. 
Sage Trit, the son of Vibhuvas, had attained this great agni above the earth by wishing to get it. The happiness enhancers and the young agnis originate from all sides in the houses of hosts and become the navel of heaven. 
 To see all the bhuvanas, the rays of the sun from which they have originated, in the form of such a sun, they hold the agni well. 
This heaven is my place of origin. This is my place of residence. All gods are mine and I am theirs. Dwijagana was born before Satyarup Brahma. The sacrificial cow itself created all this. 
May the disgusting adi havi given by me to the gods of agni etc. remove the evil demons away from here in the same way as the stream of the river takes the foam from one place to another. Men who do acts of affection, magic, sorcery, tricks towards me should fail in their desire and come here to my shelter and praise me. (1)
O Indra! Eat this sacrificial material collected by us until you are satisfied. We want from you food, protection, and the power by which you destroy the demons. 
Just as the boatman moves the boat forward, so the construction and green coloured inspires the useful voice of the Som Yajna. The radiant som reveals the hidden form of the devas in front of the hymn in the yagna. 
Oh, God! You have fixed the age of human beings as hundred years. It is during this period that you produce old age in our body. In that state, the sons become our protectors. Don't destroy us in the middle of that state. 
O host and host wife! We wish both of you to go to the realm where the cows with big seags live. The ultimate verse of Vishnu, admired by many people, is adorned in all manner. 
O Indra! We are your friends and your wishers. The purpose of we psalms is to praise you. We praise you through kanvagotriya uktha mantras. 
 O Indra! You come. We have taken out somers for you. You drink it. We have laid the seat of Kush for you. You sit on it. 
O mortal Mon! You created the sun in space that holds true and good water so that it could go before man. You always go to the struggle while serving everyone. 
Oh, God! You are a great leader and a true man. Make our praise successful by giving us the money we desire. Oh, God! Make us advanced by cows and horses. Oh, God! We are human beings by son. 
O my fingers and green, Mon! You go to Dronakalash and send your friend Indra to the sangrams. 
 O Indra! You are the master of wealth. You deserve to pray. We have squeezed somers for you very hard. You accept it with interest. 
O agni! You are the messenger, the best and the chooser. Be happy to give immortality when you are called. In the donor's house, the deserts adorn you and the sages of Bhriguvanshi make you radiant through the hymns. 
O agni! Poets praise you. You are Chinmay. You hold money. You listen to those words of ours. Protect this havi for the gods. Get Havi to them. (64)
O one with unconsolidated power like a thunderbolt! O Manyu, the one who ends the enemies and arises with the defeat of the enemies! You hold the best force. You become smooth with our yajna. O many hosts called by! Be our helper in the struggle to get money. (6)
Four hundred and eighty gods became powerful with the part of this odan left from the yajna. (21)
We purify the juice of Soma, which is intoxicating and extremely drinkable by Indra. The dynamic stota used to drink that juice through the mouths before and also drink it at this time. 
O Jathaveda! Take this yajna of ours to the gods and consume these havyas. It was! Sitting in the yajna, first of all, eat the drops of fat and ghee well. 
This rusted gem should immaterialize the harm caused by the witchcraft. This rusted gem should destroy the abhichar karma generated in the seven holes - nose, eyes, ears and mouth. Just as the arrow thrower destroys the enemies, in the same way, the rusted gem removes evil sense and poverty from us. (3)
The fast-moving waters of the river Shwaita-Varna and The Bright Indus flow around. The Indus is the fastest among the rivers that flow. It is as bizarre as a mare and as spectacular as a woman with a fat body. 
Yum- Oh yeah! Just as a rope meets a horse, is wrapped in a vine-like tree, so you meet another man. Both of you should be mutually friendly. After this, you will receive a son of great welfare. (16)
Salutations to Rudra, the arrogant god of fever. Hello to fever. Salutations to the radiant and swami Varuna. Salutations to The World and the Earth. Salutations to the medicines produced on earth. (2)
One who knows this is the favorite place of sun, moon and constellation. (6)
O water! Lum look at me gracefully and touch my skin with your healing part. (12)
The sun-like wheel with twelve months of age, which is never ancient, always moves. Ten horses move that wheel forward. The eyes of the sun are covered with darkness. In him the whole world is located. (14)
O men! Those who are the seven Rashmis, the Kamvarshis and the Balwans, who have flown the seven rivers, and who have destroyed the Rohin Asura who is ready to go to heaven with a thunderbolt in their hands, are the same Inder. 
Varuna, friends and Ariyama - may we receive the glorious, invincible and great protection of these three gods. 
O friend, agni! May we overcome the sinful works of the enemy men with the help of your defense and your. 
 Agni is everywhere and illuminating. We praise them. We sing stotras for them in the yagna. They are going to benefit all human beings. Stotras go to them in the same way as Soma goes in the yagna. 
God is excellent and powerful. May they always bless us with growth and being our friend. May they please cover us with pleasures. (4)
O Indra! The opposing speaker who despises me with his tactics, you put an end to that question which is contrary to me. Make me more spoken with your powers and make me the one who asks questions better than the one who answers. (7)
Just as kalyani woman smiles and moves towards her husband with a tanmay mind, so the streams of ghee go towards the agni. They meet well. The agni consumes them and wishes them. 
O Indra! I want to know you. I don't get you at this time. Hey Mon! Pressing me with my teeth, you first flow slowly and then loudly. 
O wise, undealed and devo of the truth! You protect us in every war that is caused by money. You drink this mon and become merry and go by Devyana Margao. 
He moved in directions. Virat, Aditi Dev and Devta followed him. (22)
Tvashta, who converted irrigated semen into the shape of male etc., married his daughter Saranyu. The whole world gathered to see him. When Yama's mother Saranyu married Surya, the wife of the sun's more influence disappeared from near him. (53)
O many forms of agni! You give wealth to all hosts like in ancient times. O agni praised by many! You become the master of many grains by your own power. No one can defeat the glory of your glorious. 
This stotao! Indra's anti-hostile radiance rises like ancient times, so you worship Indra like the Angiras with the most innovative praises. Indra had freed the clouds stopped by the Vrithra asuras in the head of Somras. 
O king! Those who were opposed to you till now, they should also be affectionate to you and become obedient to you. May Indra, Agni and Vishwa Dev instill in you the ability to follow prajapalan. (5)
O agni! First you were ignited by Stota Vadhish. You accept our hymn. You become the protector of our home and body. Protect what you have given us. 
O Parjanya! Save the great cloud from the ocean and water the whole earth with the rain of the cloud. You make that cloud electric. The wind should be rain-friendly and the wind should be rain-friendly. Expand the water sacrifice inspired by rain in many ways. Crops like barley, wheat etc. should be happy with rain water. (16)
Just as the earth and the sky are separate from each other and the paths leading in each direction from a village are naturally separated, in the same way, I separate this brahmachari from the productive sins of diseases etc. and tuberculosis and with eternal life. (4)
Wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go with the help of initiation and penance, Indra Dev should take me there. May Indra Dev hold strength in me. Indra should get this sacrifice well. (6)
O sin-destroying sun! Just as you see a man who sustains all of you, look at us in the same way. (21)
 O Mon! By filtering, making it pure, you are mixed with cow's milk. When this is done, you are mixed in water. Then you become well consumeable. You are immortal and very fragrant. 
Friends, Varuna, Rudra and all the other gods who have equal love for each other, may we have mercy. 
O man! Praise agni through the stories of agni to get food. Worship a agni that is famous, illuminated and beautiful for donating money. (1)
 Agni is like a guest in the yagna. Don't take them away from the yagna. They are going to call the gods. They are comforters. He is worshipped by many people and settlers for all. 
Vasishtha sons kept the agni which was revered and regular in the house to save the agni from all fears. 
Horse, Nilgai and Taurus prajapati are related to Dev. Aj with black neck is related to agni. Aries located in front is related to Saraswati Devi. Dhan located below is related to Ashwini Dev. The horse with black navel is related to Soma and Pusha Dev. The black and white lateral parts are related to Bale Surya and Yama Dev. Those with more loam are related to Tvashta Dev. White-tailed vayu belongs to Dev. Indra, who hates the womb, is related to Dev. Baman (thigana) animals are related to Vishnu Dev. (1)
When Surya received her husband, the mind became a chariot and Dyulok became its roof. Two strong bulls were attached to that chariot. (10)
O lifeguard Varun! Let not your weapons that destroy the anti-sacrificors kill us. Let's not stay away from sunlight. Remove the violents of our lives from us. 
O Indra, the destroyer of Vritra and the greatest! You stay ahead and fight. You are my armor. I frighten the enemies with your help. (6)
O agni! Varuna, friends and Aryama - these three gods make you shine well by considering you as their ancient messengers. The host who gives you the victory of all kinds of property through you. 
We worship Indra, worthy of worship by hundreds of psalms, the protector of human beings and with hundreds of types of radiance. (4)
The son of a black night has become a shining sun. The red color is the highest of all growth. He certainly climbs the duloka. (26)
Yama said, "O Kumar Nachiketa! You wanted a chariot with no wheels, with a rod, going all the way and a new chariot with your own mind. You've sat on it without thinking. 
Yama attains a yajna called Trikdruk, lives in six places and roams in a wide world. All the verses like Trishtup, Gayatri etc. are used in praise of Yama. 
Sinful men cannot escape from the weapons of Indra, because the weapons of Indra are as destructive as hundreds of armies. Just as the mountain that provides enjoyment becomes rich with its substances, in the same way, after drinking the prepared Somras, Indra becomes full of power and provides food to the host. (4)
The control of all this and the great Yama Kadruk is obtained by six urvis from three instruments named. Verses like Trishtup, Gayatri etc. are located in the God who controls all. (6)
O medicine! Take krita's hand and take it closer to those who built it. The act that has reached them will destroy them. (4)
The Brahmin who donates the bull gets the virtue of performing a yajna called Shatayaj. Agni Dev does not give him anger and all the gods satisfy him. (18)
Sage Angira had earlier presented havi for Indra when the cows were stolen by the pangs. Due to this, the yajna leader Angiravanshis had received wealth containing cows, horses and other animals. 
 O Indra! O agni! Usha with no feet comes before the people with feet. Even if there is no head, inspiring everyone with the tongue, she crosses thirty muhurats in a day. 
At the time when Indra's mantras are spoken, only then does the violenceless Som, like the Balvanva Vajra, who is indra's beloved, give us unlimited wealth. 
O agni! The hymns spoken for the host serve you as the sisters show your qualities and set them near the air. 
The four ritwijs who desire their welfare hold the sun through hymns and havans. The dashing directions motivate the sun to move. The three types of sun's rays move quickly to the end of the sky. 
O Indra, the lord of the maruts, being praised and the lord of the maruts! Together with all the deities worthy of the yajna, you should specially increase this yajna of ours. 
O sadapushpa herb! You are like the kaninika of the divine garuda, that is, the pupil of the eye. You have grown out of garuda's eye and grown on the earth in the same way that a bride unable to walk due to fatigue sits on the ride. (3)
O sacrificial agni! When our praises are published among the gods, at that time you give us gems. O self-sufficient agni! At that time we get part of the money. 
Those who know everyone before they see everyone with their eyes, inspire everyone in their own deeds and are enduring friends and Varun are full of dush-radiance. 
 O Mon! You are prepared by the hosts who want food and wealth, just as the chariot is prepared. 
O Indra and Varun! We have the best money we want. O Maruto! We have good and heroic sons in all the work and protect us by giving them wives. Protect us by singing as Agnipatti Hotra and Suryapatti Bharati Dakshina. 
At this time, I quickly see Varuna and praise the flames of agni. When Varun drinks shobhan someras squeezed with the help of stones in excess, at that time he makes me see his Shobhanarath. 
O burn! You are part of agni. Imbibe the free part of the waters and the divine glory in us. The part of agni should be filled with the glory of prajapati of this world. (6)
We want the friendship of violence-free, powerful, angels of gods and agni that praises gods. 
O agni! You are the impure. You are also going to illuminate heaven. From you we wish for your good mind. From you we wish for good friends. You save us from sinners. You wake us up. You listen to our request. (26)
O aschinikumaro! You come three times a day and remove the errors of yajnakarma. Today, irrigate the substance of the yajna three times with sweet juice. Nourish us with strong food three times at night and a day. 
O God! By your grace, the weapons used by the enemy should be removed from our body. O enemies! The stones that you throw through instruments etc. should also stay away from us. (1)
Admired by many people and killed by the present Mon on the North-Vedi of Fire, knowing the enemies who killed us. Som conceives in the herbs and leads to our group of milch cows. 
O agni! The hosts with their own light and with vast wealth adorn you. The dripping and simple-moving offering goes to please your great agni. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You made the old Chyawan sage young by the act of donating your medicine. O true natures! The daughter of the sun had climbed on your chariot with the property. 
Through these mantras, there is knowledge of the visible heaven. These mantras illuminate the sun and through these mantras, Indra of the sun removes darkness from a distance. The very powerful Indra showers desires. (4)
These stones work quickly with a ten-fingered rope. The somras produced by them turn out to be green in colour. These stones take the juicey part of the squeezed mon first like the nectar grain. 
who trembles, falls and remains situated; The one who breathes, does not breathe and is sat, the same world form has taken the earth. He becomes a form by meeting everyone. (11)
Gopal, who searches for the lost cows everywhere, who takes the cows back home, who takes the cows from the house for grazing and returns after grazing, should return safely. 
They had met to get the cows stolen by the father's pany and arrived at a decision. Didn't they work together? i.e. did it. They did not destroy the devrelated yajnakarmas and did not meet usha's vasdata tejas without doing good. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! You plough horses in your chariot and reach our yagna. Strengthen us with hatred, give us enlightenment, give us the ability to conquer enemies. We can get money. We worship you. 
The god who satisfies the life, the sky and the earth and nurtures the stomach of the sea with humiliation, make the violent of his criminal and learned Brahmin filled in anger, O Rohit Dev, staggering and put it in bondage. (4)
 Just as you can easily see the sun in heaven with ordinary eyes, so the wise host sees the supreme position of Vishnu. 
This pregnant woman! The demons and vampires who torment your womb in such a way that it does not take birth alive or who kill your born son, the white mustard runs to those wombs and hurts their hearts. (18)
I give this great and graceful praise to the learned, the father of the hosts and the rain-bearing agni. 
The leaders of the Saritas, the ones who rain the waters and the bright ones who are moving in the agni earth and the sky, they are the ones who are adorned in front of the human beings growing up through the best human beings. 
Vrithrahanta Indra broke the ninety-nine Shannupuris with the power of the arms and violated the cloud. 
May the god who accepts the yajna, called by the meritorious, who is born in three places, who gives happiness like the sun and the world-keeper vayu, agni and pusha, come to our yajna as soon as the ashugami horse. 
With the help of the thousand-ray working sun that rises from the sea, we will put all the people to sleep. 
Havan is given to the air, sun, sky and other human-friendly gods flowing in hundreds of streams. Those who please the seven official priests fulfill their desires. 
O Indra! It is true that the happiness created by your sompan is beneficial to all. Your properties located in the three lokas also benefit the people. You are surely the givers of food and the ones who are going to have strength among the gods. 
O Vachaspati! You are the creator of the world's com. You are like the mind. The food we are doing today. Accept that. You do gentle things. You feed the world. You have to take indra dev in kalash. You have been absorbed in the kalash for Vishwakarma. This is your native place. You are dedicated to Vishwakarma Indra Dev. (45)
Hey Mon! Pour the juice into the earthly and divine realms with those who possess. O special seer and white character Mon! Wise people inspire you to shed juices by praises and fingers. 
O fever that destroys the body! You annoy all human beings. So go to the despised, weak and inferior place. (2)
 O hosts! You gather and sing prayers for Indra. Indra loves hymns like grass to cows. 
Indra Dev destroys our fear, which others cannot overcome. They are not going to be destabilised by indra anyone else. They are going to see everyone. (5)
O Supreme Power of Divine Virtue! This sacrifice is dedicated to Rudra Dev. This sacrifice is dedicated to lighting the light with light. These are sacrifices to combine the fastest during the day. This sacrifice is dedicated to combining the fastest at night. You accept these sacrifices and protect us. (16)
I complete my heartfelt praise by targeting the most charitable, the great of virtues, the rich, the lord of the amoghbal and the huge-sized Indra. Just as no one can stop the water flowing downwards, so also no one will be able to hold the force of Indra. Indra illuminates all-encompassing wealth to make the Psalms strong. 
O fathers! You sit on the seat of Kush. We sing praises to you in a loud voice. We dedicate havi to you. Please accept this havi with happiness and come to this yajna with defense means. May you enjoy happiness for us. (55)
O global agni! Earth, sky, and heaven do what you love. You expand the earth and the sky by constantly shining brightly. 
O Maruto! Like the movement of vast waters, the earth is neither afraid nor shattered at the time you collide. It has many forms and yajnasadhan havi goes near you. You come together like the annadatas. 
What do the scholars have to say about the sin of killing Indra? It is present in sinful water. My son Indra forcefully wielded a thunderbolt and killed Vritra. After that the rivers flowed. 
Let the mon and money that drip the item come to us. With their help, let us conquer the mighty shantrus and overcome the obstacle of every human being and gain wealth forever. 
Pusha, Som, Mitra, Varun, Jupiter, Marut, Vayu, Ashwinikumar, Tvasta, Savita and Saraswati with Shobhan's body should come together in our yajna. 
 O Indra! Where did you go before? Where are you at the moment? You roam around a lot of places. You are going to destroy demons. Our hosts are skilled in singing prayers. They praise you. 
That action is declared to be in the mode of ignorance, which is begun out of delusion, without thought to one’s own ability, and disregarding consequences, loss, and injury to others.
Indra is as powerful as the thunderbolt obtainable from the mountain. They are never degenerate. They receive enemy money for the best hosts. (14)
Indra is the greatest, the sage, called many times by many and the vrittar vadhadi is great because of his great deeds. 
Pure, wise and mixed with curd, these somas permeate our intellects through knowledge. 
In which part of this God is the land located? Which part of it contains space? In which part of this rigid dyau is it located? In which part of this high heaven is it located? (3)
These people with long hair have been dancing in your house and have been committing sins with a stop, May Agni Dev free you from that sin. (59)
May Barun Dev bless us with the curse on those who are wrong in the water. O Barun! You are constantly dynamic. Please slow down your speed. You should atone for the sins committed in god's deeds towards the gods. The sins committed in human behavior towards human beings. Save them from them. Protect from enemies. (18)
In the conception of the nymphs who roam behind the rays of the sun or the rays of the sun run behind them, the capable husband is always related to the ushas. They come every day to protect all the worlds. Come with Usha's husband Surya Apsaras accepting the havi of our home. (5)
O air! You come to us to give great wealth and godly strength. We praise you for giving more money at the same time. 
 O agni! Agni is illuminated in the form of sun above heaven. Only then do all beings see the brightness of that light. 
 O Mon! You are the most brave, tolerant, conqueror, rich, holy, quick-moving, sharp weapons and defeaters. You rain in the tronacle. 
Those ancestors who went to the hereafter renouncing sins even when they are without children, they cross the space and live in the upper part of heaven and get the fruits of virtue. (47)
In the Som-related yajna, dakshina is given to the ritvijas. Enter the powerful Mon Dronakalash. Jagajeel Som protects his stoes from the evil demons. The green-colored mons make up the water of the sky, which is ensconced by all, and stabilizes the sun to cover the dyava-earth and remove the darkness. 
The gods with great and destructive intellects who have been born in the earth, heaven and space, may they give us and our children food day and night for the rest of their lives. 
One of his own gan maruts with the shape of a sneeze is coming after him. (8)
O Cupid! O Manu! You are greater than the blinking and situated creatures and the sea. You are all over the world. I salute you. (23)
Hey Mon! Just as you became the giver of food for Manu in ancient times, the destroyer, the giver of money and the purodashadideta, so also come to give us money, stay near Indra and give him arms. 
Wise sages have made praises for agni. We have also praised the great agni. A very young agni! Protect The Stota and give us huge wealth. 
What is the money as a means of this money? What is beneficial money? O Jathaveda! You know this, so tell us. Also tell us the determining way of getting money. We can find the destination without being condemned. 
According to Indra Dev Season, he got an increase from vegetation and squeezed materials. Ashwini Dev and Saraswati Devi gave sweet juices for them like milking a cow. (65)
May Indra, who is well-guarded and possessed by wealth, be a pleasure to me with his means of protection. Let Indra, who knows everything, kill our enemies and make us abhaya. We become the masters of shobhan heroes by the grace of Indra. 
 O agni! You are as bright as gold. We get happiness from you in the same way as people get from the shade in summer. 
O agni! No one can hurt us. No one can disturb us. Wherever you are any enemy far or near us, please tie them in your loop. (11)
O God! The pigeon sent by the sin god should be pleasant for us and do not make the houses suffer, because it is unbreakable. For this, accept the meritorious agni our havi. By his grace, leave us with a weapon named pigeon with wings. (2)
The one who gives the power to speak, the one who pronounces the words, the one who is present with all the words, the one who knows me for the sake of radiance and the welfare of the gods, only people with less intelligence renounce the cow. 
The somas found in the water flow to Indra, Vayu, Varuna, Vishnu and the Deserts. 
O lord aditya devo! You're having mature knowledge. You know both the deceitful and the insidious people in your mind. 
The wide water satisfies these indras. When they are armed with enemies, the fierce and brave people praise Indra. 
O Ashwinikumaro! May the praise given to your purpose protect the son of Uchhayaya, Longatama, from burns, etc., and do not make me without any substance, night and day. Let the fire ignite ten times not burn me. This devotee of yours is rolling on the earth bound by loops. 
I salute surya, devagana, friends, varuna and those who give the desired fruits to beings. 
The night goddess came and accepted Usha as her sister and harmed the darkness. 
May water be our good friend. Become enemies for our enemies. May medicines be our good friends. Become an enemy for our enemy. Become an enemy to those who hate us, become an enemy to those we hate. (23)
O Dhanswami Indra! You kill an enemy as strong as you for our enjoyment. You should decide our progress by listening to praises and drinking somers in this yajna. May the inspiring Indra protect our yajna along with other gods. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
We have eaten with a man with black teeth, bad nails and impotent. O Apamarga, that is, the tree of Chirchita! We remove the sin you commit from him. (3)
 From that man, the universe man was born. Other men were born from it. After that he produced animals and other creatures. 
O hosts! Praise for agni. You are as generous as the towering, dominating, shining queen. Please provide food and strength. (12)
O branch! You go up to the high sky. You become dhuve (stable). The host should be a person and an animal in this house. Let us fill heaven and earth with ghee. I request the roof to kindly grant us umbrellas as well. (28)
Just as snow absorbs the leafless, jupiter received the cows stolen by the forced asuras. Bal Asura also gave the songs to Jupiter. It is through Jupiter that the sun rotates in the day and the moon appears at night. This karma of Jupiter is such that no one else can do and it cannot be done again. (10)
Knowing the sacrifices performed by the seven parikrama performed in the devas, those who give unseen praise, those who are thirsty, those who bow down to the gods, those who sit in the somyag with the true fruits and the revolutionary sages, O Agni! Bring us unlimited money. (47)
The dynamic and cow-wishing hymn that the striking Indra saves from the whirlpool of the unspoken stota, the stota bears the havya by becoming the master of wealth. 
Hey Mon! Your juice, which pleases the gods, with thousands of streams, goes to the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair with the help of ancient routes. 
I call Indra with praises to milk milk as a cow's desire. Indra is great, acceptable of praises and a friend. 
 O Mon! Your juice is extracted and squeezed by crushing with stones. Please give us energy and strength. Please enter the urn while making a sound. 
Half that is, the first one is in force. (19)
One who knows God, his ignorance disappears and his sin is destroyed. The three lights that are in Prajapati are received by him. (40)
 O Mon! You are shining. We are willing to befriend you every day. You destroy all those who persecute us. 
O aditiputra devas and aditi! The learned sage Sage, the son of Pluty, had raised you all up. By the grace of the gods, human beings get dominion. Sage Gaya had praised the god group. 
O houses! When you pray for permission, you become more wealthy, friendly and delicious and sweet. You always be free from hunger and thirst, that is, of all kinds of satisfied people. O houses! When we come from outside, don't be afraid of us as aliens. (4)
The agni that has been born in a bright form across this space, may they protect us from the enemies. 
Praise Indra in your praises. This hymn! Praise Indra with praises worthy of praises. When Indra goes towards the enemies, wielding his weapons for war and committing violence on the enemies, O Stota! Utter eulogies at that time. (13)
Horses have thin middle limbs (waist), strong, strong thighs and chest. They walk in a pantheon like divine and swans. These horses find heavenly bliss (divinity) in heaven. (21)
Just as the sun and the moon walk their path seamlessly, so too do we walk on the path of welfare. Let us meet such brothers and sisters, who have not been angry even after being separated for a long time and remember us. 
O stunning Maruto! The hymn being spoken towards you is with food. This psalm came out of the wisdom that you have faith in you, so please listen to us with all your heart and accept it and come quickly. You are going to increase the food grains. 
O men! You are the medium of sanctifying things. You are heaven, earth, spinach, heat and world holder. Be firm with your ultimate brilliance. Your yajnapati (helper in yajna) should also not be harsh. (2)
O agni! At the time when you are ignited in your place and invoked by The Som and become the subject of praise of the Ritvijas, at that time you receive the utmost bhadra. Be the most pleasant to us and the giver of delightful sacrifices and wealth for the host, and we will not be disenchanted by anyone by getting your friendship. 
O stotao! You people meet each other, speak the stotras together. Know the same thing in your mind. Just as the ancient gods used to join in and receive the part of the yagna, so also you should enjoy the property together. 
O sing! In this cow shed of mine, you should live with children like sons, grandsons etc. and without fear of thieves, tigers etc. You, who give cow dung and are disease-free and wear milk like nectar, you have got me. (3)
I praise the agni that protects the best by the hymns of sage Shyavaswa. Fire come here and know my yajnakarma. Just as people reach the desired place with the help of chariots, so let us fulfill our opinion through complete hymns with the desire of food. We should increase the group of maruts by circumambulation. 
O Subhaga with the color of gold and a medicine with a glow like the sun! You make the body healthy. You heal the wound, so your name is innocence. (6)
Those who know me as unborn and beginningless, and as the Supreme Lord of the universe, they among mortals are free from illusion and released from all evils.
 O Indra! You are as strong as a bull. Those who are angry with Gopalko, we associate ourselves with them. Resist them by giving the appropriate answer with your help. You join us in removing them. 
They spread over the Som Dyava-Prithvi in many ways and go to the best dulok. 
The ritwijas have built the mighty, bright and fast som with the desire to get cows, horses and offspring. 
 O Indra! You are worthy of worship. In Somyagya, our prayers reach you just as cows reach their calves quickly and the warrior climbs on a chariot and reaches a safe place. 
All the medicines that are listening to this hymn of mine or who have gone away, come together and give strength to this patient. 
The unfortunate asuras, the steady god and the dying man, the Indra, who cannot be solved in the war, give praiseworthy money to his hymns to get the joy that arises out of drinking somers. 
Hey, Lord! The three-wheeled chariot you have given to the Ashwinikumars rotates in the sky even in the absence of horses and ropes. This work of yours is worthy of praise. This deed makes your divinity famous. Through it you nourish the earth and the sky. 
Those who have high fathers, best fathers, middle fathers and gentle fathers, please inspire us. May the enemyless father be pleased to protect us. Please protect us in the ancestors and ancestors who know the truth. (49)
Vrithrahanta and Purandar Indra had nudged the army of lower jati dasas. Fulfill the great desire of Indra, the host of Indra, who created the earth and water for Manu. 
Aditya, Rudra and Vasu Dev reside in heaven. May the gods who are powerful on earth free us from sin. Angira gotriya rishi and mystics should protect us from sin. (13)
I dance like a peacock and break the testicles of Gandharva, the husband of the nymph, and make his male genitalia inactive. (7)
I call upon the ancient agni, who completes the yagna of man. I praise them through these praises and call them to you. 
There is a mountain named Trikkud in the upper part of the Himalayan mountains. May the Anjan tree generated there destroy all the demons and all the demons. (9)
O Indra Dev! You are a knight, the master of the world, the almighty and God. Like a cow without milking, we want to get money from you. (35)
 Someras consumes nectar. He fills both heaven and earth with nectar-like water. When the hosts make the devasthan havimaya, Soma makes the water bright with its importance. 
We are hearing the word of the whip in the hands of the maruts. That word of whip increases our power in war. 
Agni holds the womb of his father space i.e. water and the womb of his father, brahmin, i.e. public nutrition. Fire alone feeds on the herbs that have increased in many forms. The earth-sky workers who are mutually sovereign and do good to human beings are brothers of anni. O agni! You protect these two. 
At the time when the father had sexual intercourse with his daughter, he gave up semen by meeting the earth. The devas with shobhan karma produced the vratakshan dev vastoshpati from the same semen. 
O Indra Dev! You are rich and green horses. The deserts are brilliant. He inspired you to destroy enemies like Ahi, Shambar etc. They sang praises to you when they rescued the cows. They always approve of you. O Indra Dev! You are VIPR. You come. Please drink Someras with the Desert. (63)
The apsaras who take possession of the money won in gambling by saying 'this is mine' and dance happily by winning in gambling through the numbers of dice, they should absorb the stakes of four numbers and get the dice from their maya and the nymphs with cow etc. come to us. Others cannot win our money at the gambling stake. (3)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Your furious, high, moving and ever-moving chariot is famous among the sagnyas. It was by your defense effort that our father Atri was alive. 
May Vaishnavar come here, May Vaishnavar please protect us from all sides with his defense tools. They worship agni through a vehicle in the form of a uchth. We accept you in the upayam. The book is your native place. (8)
O Indra! Come for you let us squeeze the somras. You drink this mon and sit on these kushas laid down by us. 
Praise indra who is as full of a cow who is free from the circle of enemies who suppresses enemies, who shelters in wars, has more wealth, is praised by many and who is as milking for the host engaged in yajnakarma. 
Enemies with more numbers are afraid of the footsteps with which Indra plays. (8)
O Indra who goes everywhere! You protect us for advancement by means of lossless defense and be our friend. O Shur Indra! We call you to receive money while battling with some of our soldiers. 
Hey Mon! You give pleasure to our cows. You increase more food and admirable water for us. 
O Soma washed with water like a horse and a fast one! You drip to give us knowledge, strength and wealth. 
 O Mon! With your defense tools and knowledge, we can be able to see the sun for a long time. Please give us long life. 
While awakening The Dadhidra Dev, I praise agni, usha, sun and land. I praise Varuna's great and yellow horse that destroyed the haughty. They take away all sin sins from us. 
O omniscient agni! You are the best powerful by power, the one with virtuous deeds by karma and wise because of wisdom. You alone become the refuge of all religions. You hold the wealth that the deva-earthyvi promotes. 
May the immortal mind with which everything is known, from which the past, present and future are accepted, through which the seven priests (would) extend the yajna, may our mind be filled with welfare resolutions. (4)
O Maruto! You scatter the clouds around in the sky and give money to the host who gives you money. The forests begin to tremble for fear of your coming. O you of wrath and the beloved, Maruto! Distract the earth by rain. You add horses with bunts to your chariot. 
Without attachment, you are both born to those who are rich and give you the worthy of wealth, who increase your brothers with true words and give godhan and horse-worship to those who ask. 
With the help of the ripe Brahmaudan from which the nectar of heaven was born, which became the ruler of gayatri, the head of the verses, and in which all the Vedas are located by branch distinction, I cross death. (6)
O dundubi! Hearing your voice, the enemies started crying. You make us stunning. You remove us from sins. You be as strong as Indra Dev's fist. The enemies that came to our army. You completely destroy them. (56)
Fire energy is the root of immortality and the fulfillment of great desires. We invite Agni. Please do they manage in cows and in our bodies. May by His grace let us become healthy; (105)
Savita Dev is the one who grows everyone. We wear the energy of yajna dev with the hands of Ashwinikumar's arm and Pusha Dev. Saraswati Devi controls with speech. Jupiter is the controller of the superior empire, the operator. We water you. (30)
O men! You follow each other with the spirit of small and big, become one with the same mind, the same accomplishment and the one who does the same work. While behaving in this way, do not get separated from each other and come speaking dear words to each other. I also meet you all and make you engaged in work and have similar views. (5)
The wind appeared from them and they appeared from the air. (4)
 O Mon! Hosts squeeze and refine you. You go from a moving stream like a horse to Dronakalsh. You go to Dronalash at a slow pace. 
Oh, that thing! I perform yajna to please you in the summer seasons, to please the seasonal gods, to please the months of Chaitra, to please the samvatsars, to please Dhata and Vidhata and to please the swami of all beings, samrudha. (4)
Animals with black necks are related to Fire, white eyebrow animals Vasudeva and red colored animals are related to Rudradev. White colored animals are related to Aditya Dev and nabh-like animals are related to Parjanya (cloud). (6)
We will get the ancient houses of Varuna which are well beautified. We will also fast for a very famous friend. 
Just as the mother goes to the child, so the seven rivers go to the new born, the conqueror, the scholar, the giver of the waters, the water-giver, the one born in heaven and the so-called the soma who sees the human beings. 
Streams of ghee fall on the agni just like a happy river. They are sanctified by the mind that lives between the hearts. Just as deer run away for fear of disease, so do streams of ghee. 
The villages, forests and meetings on earth, which are the fountains of war and the wars that take place, O land! We worship you in all of them. (56)
Agni again gave the wife to the husband with age and speed, and her husband lived a hundred years as a long-term man. 
May the rainy god of Rudra, Saraswati, Vishnu, Vayu, Ribhuksha, Vaj and Vidhata, who shower, make us happy by having mutual love. Let the rain and air increase our food. 
O vegetation! You yourself produce animal food for the gods. In this way, the fire will make all the havyas delicious. 
O sainthood i.e. related to the sun or at the time of anger i.e. in the afternoon, you are able to perform yajna! This havi is made for you, that's why consume it. Those who obstruct the enemies, you should consume havi to protect us. (1)
O Indra! I want to be your follower to achieve fame and good fortune through all your protective means. (1)
The water kings of which Varuna goes to the middle people knowing the truth and falsehood in his water-like people, may the water-like goddesses who shower the sweet, the radiant and the sanctifying, always protect us here. 
O Rich God Indra! Come close to us and listen to our praises. Don't you get different from the first. Only when you make us full of the truth, the loving and the words of praise, do we pray to you. For this reason, add both your horses named Hari to the chariot. 
O Indra! The force with which you made the waters moving towards the ocean. We plead with the same force to move forward in the path of nectar. (9)
Make me stunning, the officer of drinking somers. May Vishwe Dev equip me with sweet hatred. I watch for a long time, so you grow freeing me from diseases. (10)
 O Indra! You are the sole master of all kinds of wealth, low, medium and good. When you want to donate cows etc. to your hosts, no one can stop you. 
They climb the sun and sky and also climb on the shining objects. (26)
The host who squeezes somers defeats his enemies as well as the enemies of the gods. He acquires many houses and wishes to donate various substances. He is not surrounded by enemies and becomes the master of food. Indra gives him all the wealth related to the earth. (1)
The angry gods told Vasha that this host did not donate to us, this one who does not donate is defeated for this reason. (49)
Oh my friend and Varun! By your command, the cows are milch and the rivers give sweet water. By your grace, those who rain water, hold water and become the masters of the glorious agni, the air, the aditya god, the earth, the sky and the heaven. 
Please be pleased to satisfy the ancestors by the streams of energy flowing and energetic, milky and annamayi. (34)
The agni, which was filled with lights, fitted with a friend, ending the old ritvij and the yagna, was produced by the hosts through the arms and entrusted with the task of calling the gods. 
Arjun said, “O Keshav, I wish to understand what are prakṛiti and puruṣh, and what are kṣhetra and kṣhetrajña? I also wish to know what is true knowledge, and what is the goal of this knowledge?
 O agni! Man awakens himself and his faith by putting his mind. Illuminates you with the rays of the sun. 
The goddess pervades Indra to make nirtrati swami. The years with shobhan food permeate Indra. The dying stota makes Indra sit in his house. Indra, who holds the three lokas, gives the force of digesting food. 
When he walked towards the animals, he went as Rudra, making the medicines annad. (11)
I had received ten horses, ten gold cells, ten kinds of food, clothes, and ten bodies of gold from Divodas. 
 Soma is green, powerful, illuminated and visible like a king. Their juice is filtered in a sieve made of sheep's hair. By mixing with cow's milk, someras becomes more sacred. He enters the urns filled with water just as a flying bird descends at a velocity. 
Ida Devi, Saraswati Devi and Bharati Devi are glorified. They are dignitaries. May they (yajna) be pleased to come to the House and sit on the seat of Kush. (19)
We, the Stotas and the Brahmins, call you to get food. O ashvinikumaro with spectacular and varied deeds! Come quickly to hear our praise. 
Whenever we praise the Vishwadevas, the ritwijas walk towards the yagna mandap, holding the ten types of grains that reinforce the ten kinds of senses. The kings of Ishtash and Ishtasmi, the enemies and the leader-form Varuna, etc., cannot please the gods at all. 
We are equipped with the protection of Agni, Indra, Soma and other gods. We will all avoid the evil and defeat the shanrus. 
Let our yajna go to the gods like a horse. Hey Ritvijo! You should unanimously pick up the srucha and lay the kushas well for the sake of the yajna. O agni! May your godly flames rise upwards. 
O mon being squeezed! Whether the enemy is far away or near, destroy his speed and grain. 
Som is a quick worker, a drug addict and a satiating agent to Indra. They increase our intelligence. Som had enhanced the wisdom of the great meritorious Kandhivan rishi. They are great because of the particular item. 
When such a (yajna-like) ecstasy activity is carried out, they realize that ultimate truth in the same way as the woman is identified by looking at the organs of the woman. (29)
The same great agni which has made the asuris scholars inferior to the armaments and has produced the surya-wife Usha, the same great agni had stopped the people by force and made King Nahush a tax-giver. 
O agni! The man who elaborates our mantra-filled offerings through committees finds the house with sons and grandsons for a hundred years. 
The best yagnik form is agni! You should perform yajna by the word and praise our donated food in front of the gods with great pride. You are the master of the best riches. You know our flamboyant hymn. 
Hey Ritvijo! As the giver of pleasures and the trembling as a flame, make the agni appear to us to be attracted to the eulogies and sayings like Indra. The meritorious stotas respectfully praise the enemies, those who defeat the enemy armies, those who call the gods and the Jatveda Agni. 
Hey Mon! You purify the annalyukta som for the sake of yajna by wishing for food, adhwaryu etc., the leader of the yajna. 
O jataved agni! The enemy who wants to destroy us from the angles of directions by witchcraft by sacrificing in the antardishas, that enemy should suffer while being defeated. We destroy our enemies with perishkar karma. (8)
For indra's arrival connect the horses in front of the chariot. Indra is a vajradhari and with gold hands. 
Space appeared from them and they appeared from space. (3)
Who knows that truth? Who does it? Which path goes well before the gods? What path goes to the places that are seen below the places of the gods in heaven and which are attained by the best and painful fasts? 
Surya's son Yama is more stunning than his father. I do not find any creature superior to Yama. Your yajna is pervading those superior Yamas. The Sun has expanded the plots only for the accomplishment of the yajna. (32)
 This somerus reaches Indra's stomach. Like a friend, Som does not give any kind of trouble to Indra. Just as the young man mixes with young women, so Someras mixes with water. He filters through many holes of the sieve and goes to the pot. 
O agni! May all our hymns be dear to your mind and conscience. We want to protect your wealth by instilling in you the consumable wealth of the gods that can wipe out our poverty. 
O sage of Bhardwaja! Praise the Indra who has been called by the defeater of enemies, the one who is sharp, the enemy violent, the undefeated, and the many. You increase the undefeated, the flamboyant, the enemy, and the one who fulfills the will of the people through these eulogies. 
All the gods served Som and Pushadeva as soon as they were born, both of whom destroy the darkness. Indra, along with them, produces milk in the cows' trunks. 
O stotao! We have confirmed Indra with somers. You should also give them the sacramented Soma with a happy heart and equip them with hymns. (1)
Through this praise, let us receive the food given by Indra and be happy for a hundred years to have a blessed child. 
This is the same agni in which Indra, who wished abhishoot Somras, had kept it in his stomach. O Jativeda Agni! The whole world praises you as fast as a thousand-rupee horse and who consumes the havan. 
Salutations to the sun who sees through the eyes of friendly god and Varun devta. The sun is bright, far-sighted, born of god and the son of heaven. Salutations to the sun! The host should perform yajna for the sun. The host should recite the hymn for the sun. (35)
O Indra, the best among the leaders! These hymns are being done for you who come before us and give money. Let us destroy the sins of the hymns and make us happy and give us a house. We give you havi. Protect us like a friend. (10)
One who does not want to give the cow of the gods to the Brahmins with sage sons, he gets to perish by the gods due to Brahman wrath. (12)
O Indra! The somras that you killed the ShambarAs for the welfare of King Divodas because of the item that you drank, the same Somras has been squeezed for you. You drink it. 
That supreme man made heaven furious. He made the earth weak. He made heaven stable. He created beauty in space. For which god should we (other than them) now invoke Havi? (6)
O Indra! We know you to be a man of adornment, of excellent protection, of beautiful ones, of possessing all four seas with glory, of possessing wealth, of praise again and again, and of the deterrent of many sufferings. You give us annual and strange money. 
Som Dev has emerged from within the moon. Som Dev is bright and colorful. They run towards paradise with a thick roar. May they shower wealth on us. (90)
O Maruto! I praise you for getting money. You are as intelligent as Indra, wise as Varuna, praiseworthy as sun and rich as Vishnu. 
O Indra! You are called by our followers in the east, west, north and down direction. You come quickly with the help of your horses. 
Indra has set the sun in the sky for human beings to see continuously. The sun is illuminating the whole world like mountains etc. by its rays. 
 Somerus is bright, powerful and green. He is as beautiful and observable as the king. It makes a sound when adding and filtering cow's milk. It is filtered with a sieve made of sheep's hair and cleaned. It's watery. Like the Shyen bird, it is located in the pitcher. 
O Indra and Soma! You push the evil demons into darkness covering and without support, so that not a single one of the demons lying in darkness can come out. This force of both of you to defeat the demons is angry. (3)
There is no equal (similar) of that Supreme being. Your fame is great. Your name is exceedingly great. In mantras like "Hiranyagarbha", "Ma Hinsit," "Yasmanjat", the praise and name of that Supreme being have been repeatedly described. (3)
O Indra! The evil people who pretend to be your friendship are coming. Take away money from them and give it to us. See the sins of those who destroy sins and the wise ones of us. Rescue us from him in every way. 
O agni that observes the fast! Honored by yajnakarmos like Darshan, Pournamas etc., you should be happy in all the days and become immersed in our house. O jataved agni! Sit around you with our sons, grandsons, etc. (4)
 The sun decorates Som with its jewels in the same way as the horse is decorated with ornaments. Fingers compete with each other to remove it. Just as a cowherd takes cows to the cowshed to be reared, someras is taken to the host matkas. 
Protect us from the birds etc. that move in the sky, which are snakes etc. sliding on the earth, which are mountain animals, O night. (3)
 O Ashwinikumaro! You are a young leader and inspire those who give the best diet and praise. Please stop your chariot. You put your mind and drink sweet somers. 
O agni! Just as there are branches in the tree, so you contain other agnis like Garhapattya, etc. I, who live among men, will find bright glory in front of other hymns, increasing your powers by my praise. 
The deserts always spread the clouds containing rain streams and without destruction in the sky and irrigate the juice in wheat, barley, trees, etc. I keep such maruts in front of me, whose mother is Madhyama Vani. They save me from sin. (2)
Like the sun, the guardian of the seasons, the agni which is the regulator of human beings and gods, the satyakarma, the vrithrashakta, the eternal, the omniscient and the brightest, let them transcend all the sins of the praiseor. 
Fire supplies havi part to the gods. They deliver havi part to Indra Dev. They deliver the money to the friend Dev. They deliver havi bhag to Varun Dev. They deliver havi bhag to all the gods. Please make our yajna successful with the water that the sun keeps together for a long time by making steam. (24)
O dear rasa wale mon! You pour out the juice for Indra and Vishnu and protect the leaders of the yagnakarma and your stoetas from sin. 
O Indra! Just as water fills the river, so do you increase our food by accepting the former sages and our praises. O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! We have made new praises for you. Let us be the masters of the chariot and your servants. 
 O Indra! You are powerful. You are a somaras drinker and a celebrity. You can single-handedly destroy even the biggest enemy for the benefit of the hosts. 
Still others offer as sacrifice the outgoing breath in the incoming breath, while some offer the incoming breath into the outgoing breath. Some arduously practice prāṇāyām and restrain the incoming and outgoing breaths, purely absorbed in the regulation of the life-energy. Yet others curtail their food intake and offer the breath into the life-energy as sacrifice. All these knowers of sacrifice are cleansed of their impurities as a result of such performances.
Let us bring to fruition one, three, five, five and seven, seven and nine, nine and eleven, eleven and thirteen, thirteen and fifteen, fifteen and seventeen, nineteen and twenty-one, twenty-three and twenty-five stom will. Let us bring twenty-five and twenty-seven, twenty-seven and twenty-nine, twenty-nine and thirty-one, thirty-one and thirty-three Stoms' wills to fruition from the yajna. Please may the yajna be completely fruitful. (24)
Fire is always praised. They are annadyas, kamayuktas, powerful and word-makers. They start walking around the altar only immediately after our call. They illuminate the work of host by their flames a hundred times because of the acceptable hymns. The fire yajna received the highest place is always surrounded. 
O arrogant God of wound disease! You eat your sacrifice. While serving, you should eat sacrifice. I also give this havi with my heart. (4)
O Jupiter God! You free us from the fear of going to Yamraj's house. May Ashwini Dev be pleased to remove our fear of death. Ashwini Dev is the knower of medicines. May they be pleased to sanctify the agni. (9)
O Saraswati! You come to sit on a chariot with the fathers, pleased with the uttered havan of the Swadha. Sit on the stretched kushas of this yajna and enjoy and make us healthy and give us food. 
Hey Mon! All these people have been born out of your luminous semen. You are the master of the whole world. This whole world is under your control. You are the most prominent and sharp. 
Savita Dev conquered heaven, wearing the velocity of Jupiter to whom this gem was tied to get the same velocity as air. He provided truth for the host. O host! With this you destroy your enemies. (13)
O ghost! I should cross the new forest path avoiding evil animals like bears etc. You cast us down on the other side of the River Ashwavati. May this river give us happiness. He who has killed you may not find a substance fit for consumption while being slaughtered. (31)
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the bird looks around with fear and places its children in the nest on the tree, so I have tried and made this hymn. On being called by these hymns on many days, the human-friendly, the leader's and the best yagnik, Indra, completes the yajna and accepts somras even at night. 
 The gods have made the best intelligent agni their own. They perform havan with havi, hold gems for the host, give good children, give strength to the donor host. 
O Indra! Your hands are attractive and full of gold. This is Shachi's husband! Provide me the wife willing to have a wife with the same hand. (3)
Because of this declarable hymn, we should defeat the enemies in the battle with the sons, grandsons, etc., who have received the grace of Indra. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash respect this prayer of ours. 
 The mantras composed by the sages are soaked in welfare, beneficial vachi like nectar for Brahmins. They are adorned with streams of affection and are superiorly fruitful. 
While going to war, armored people are adorned like clouds. Heroes win without getting injured. May he bless you with the glory of your armor to protect you. (38)
Agni, Give a son to yajman, who is the swami of many kinds of food, possessing of various knowledge sources, who is not defeated by the best enemies, and who will make the ancestors yagya famous by his deeds. 
Just as the clouds fill the world with rain, so the gods have covered the world. They pulled out the sun covered in the ocean to shine. 
All our praises for the desire of protection make Soma as bright as before for Indra's drink. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra and Agni! You come before us with the forces that destroy the enemies and our divine desires. O Indra and Agni! You come before us with flawless and good money. 
It is like Indra from taurus shape and agni from your shoulder. Thus it is taurus prajapati form. (7)
This is the hymn! Praise the most heroic, powerful and dynamic maruts in the same way that the gwala moves the animals. Just as there are stars in the sky, so do the deserts hold on to your flesh the hearable praises of the wise hymn 
Amongst the descendants of Vrishni, I am Krishna, and amongst the Pandavas I am Arjun. Know me to be Ved Vyas amongst the sages, and Shukracharya amongst the great thinkers.
The most foolish, the one who does not violence to human beings, the one with independent glory and the draconian Aditya protects our yajnakarmas. 
O God! Give us a homeowner who is a human benefactor, destroying poverty by money, giving us wealth in ancient times. 
The divinity and glory of the sun is wide. The sun sits in the middle of the world and is the one who creates and destroys huge things. When they separate and capture their green rays, then the night surrounds the world with darkness. (37)
The importance of this Indra is more than the world and the earth. These Indras adorn the enemies with their own glory. This type of Indra goes for war or approaches the clouds to rain. (9)
At the beginning of the creation, what kind of death was arranged by Vidhata for indra etc. gods? After this, Yama, the son of Sun, pulled the body of humans from all sides and made them lifeless. (41)
Risen above sin, let us ascend to a better and sorrow-free heaven. After this, we go to the Sun God illuminated in the form of good and light. (7)
There is no one in this world to stop the agni that moves around like a calf and has a white color, they wish for hymns of the hymns. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You're going to see everything. You are going to work for the gods as they wish. You are enemies. You give peace and tranquility for our cows. 
May the sun, without sin, with equal knowledge and very bright during the day, inspire us in worship etc. (2)
Sanjay said: Having spoken thus, the compassionate son of Vasudev displayed his personal (four-armed) form again. Then, he further consoled the frightened Arjun by assuming his gentle (two-armed) form.
Please be associated with the first deity with the second, the second third god. Link truth with truth. Connect yajna to yajna. Add Yajurveda with Samaveda. Connect the Samaveda to the verses. The verses should be full of puronuvaka. Puronuvakya should be equipped with yajna mantras. Please make sacrifices to fulfill our wishes. (12)
The king of all the people, called by many and the chief among the gods, destroys the fear of Indra's enemies. All hosts, the lord of wealth and the brothers who praise him, usually target Indradeva and praise him. 
O Indra! Come to us with hundreds of grains and thousands of powers from Dulok itself. 
The mountain walkers and thorns said that the snakes who live in the earth by making burrows, their venom should become ineffective. (9)
Vasuruchi, the son of Suryavarchas, exploited him and called punyagandha. (7)
Wishing us, dev wives should protect us and come to provide us children and food. The gods and wives who live on earth and are located in space, they should listen to shobhan avahan and give us happiness and home. (1)
It is the cloud god in the middle direction above. This Dev is a winner, a good army, a fighter, a village head and a pioneer. Urvashi and Purposchit are his two nymphs. Roars are their weapons. Electricity is the sharp armament of these. May agni give us happiness. May the agni hold in your jaws to all those who hate us and those whom we hate. (19)
O gandmalao! Just as the eagle bird flies from its habitat, so you get out of my body. May the sun heal me and the moon remove you from my body. (1)
O Shobhan Gaman wale Aschinikumaro! Flow the River Shwethyavari, which is adorned with praise, with white water and nourishing the people on both sides. 
O Indra! Wherever you are in a distant country or in a nearby country. You are being called from there. O Indra! You come to this yajna soon. (9)
O Indra! Just as rats eat the tantal, so my mental worries are eating me. O Sahartu Indra! I'm your stota. O Dhanaswami Indra! Protect me once and be like my father. 
We praise Indra, the character of praise of many people, the possessor of infinite brightness and the possessor of human beings. 
O Aditya, who is blessed with danadigun and is engaged in prajapalan, you are the swami of wealth that nourishes a thousand number of subjects. You give us the same kind of money and give us part of that money to enjoy. By Your grace, we become the masters of that wealth. (3)
O God of agni! You are going to oppress the enemies. Your devotee cannot attack the host, because he has a special kind of power. 
O Indra! Viswedev, who was your friend, had left you fearful of the breath of the Vrithra Asura. At that time your friendship with the Maruts was established, after that you conquered all the enemy armies. 
Indra, who is worried about his horse Indragaman, is tempted to come to the yagna of my host. Indra should come by aiming at the greetings and praises of the host who gives the greetings of the best of the ways. Indra should come and eat our heart and listen to the praises. Indra tastes my somras and havya. 
O agni! We wish and call upon you to complete this Pitru Yagya. You should be well illuminated and come to eat for the ancestors who wish for self-wealth. (56)
The stone as a means of squeezing somras, the intoxication of drinking somras and this dull mon are all joyous. O errands and the most ant of the enemies, Indra! You drink somras with the rainy maruts. 
 O Mon! You are powerful. After squeezing the juice, you give us godhan and horse money, then mix it in cow's milk and you become white in color. We praise you in all ways. 
O Varuna who appears in many regions! We have greeted you in the past, do it in the present tense and will do so in the future. O Varuna unworthy of violence! You have a power of achyuta like a mountain. 
 Someras is divine, sacred and has a green aura. After being purified from the rays of the sun, he goes to Dronakalash. He goes to the urn like a horse. Ten fingers make it pure by massaging it. 
We call indra, the leader of the world, the leader of the rich world, the hearer of praises, the fiercest of the enemies, the demon destroyer in the war and the conqueror of the wealth of the enemies, to protect indra. 
O Indra! No earthly and divine being can match you. (2)
The sages had said that the heroic Indra, who defeated the enemy army, has all kinds of properties in both his hands. 
Swaha for Ayas Dev. Swaha for prayas dev. Swaha for Sanyas Dev. Swaha for Vias Dev. Swaha for Udyas Dev. Swaha for Shuch Dev. Swaha for Shoch Dev. Swaha for Shochaman and Shok Dev. (11)
This yajna is flawless, the host of yagna, inhabitant of the devloka and who wish for the sake of getting results, worships Indra as a force. 
O Sompanaker Indra! You have excelled and ended the people who do not squeeze the Somras by making them weak by mutual opposition. 
O Indra Dev! Usha Devi comes before the feet even after being feetless. O agni! Even when headless, the heads of creatures inspire. O agni! They move forward by speaking from the tongue of humans. Grow with hundreds of feet a day. (93)
O Indra! It's true that I don't know the end of your wealth. O rich and thunderous Indra! Give us quick money and protect our sacrificial deeds through the inside. 
 O Indra! The sun's rays drink the luscious and sweet somers. These rays of the sun adorn you, that is, reside in your own kingdom. 
O God of agni, the knower of those who are born! Perform this yajna for the sake of Indra. May all gods accept this havi. (12)
Let Indra be the giver of the Great Force. The stunning Indra receives the rise due to our praises. Kill the enemy-destroyer Indra who stops the water. Indra extremely quickly they give us the money. 
Swaha for air. Swaha for smoke. Swaha for electric ones. Swaha for roaring hair. Swaha for the year. Swaha for a short year. Swaha for excessive year. Swaha for Sheen Varshak. Swaha for the one who rises up. Swaha for the water collector from above. Swaha for drizzle. Swaha for densely yearly. Swaha for the thunderer. Swaha for the foggy. Swaha for all the clouds. (26)
Indra Dev, who has a thousand eyes, has always held that pushpa in my right hand. Under Your influence, I see and subdue everyone, whether it is Shudras or Aryans, i.e. Brahmins, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas. (4)
O darbhamani! Burn my enemies and those who gather army against me. Burn all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (8)
The thunderbolt that sleeps in the middle of the sea and which is surrounded by water, the enemies who go ahead in the battle receive the gift of the same thunderbolt. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as two bulls, then make this cow have children, otherwise you will be considered powerless. (2)
O Savita! You go to the three lighted realms and meet the sun's rays and walk on both sides of the night. You become friends through the deeds that hold the world. 
This sacrifice should be well received for the Ganas. (16)
O hosts! Indra is God, charitable and rich. They don't retaliate. Even when alone, he is the master of all beings. 
Ask skilled and mature human beings. (6)
The whole world is illuminated to get power from the power of indra, which the vajradhari indra and the sky cannot separate from themselves. 
Vishnu, the protector of all and not defeated by others, started from this earth and took the three worlds that possessed beings. (4)
Indra cut off the head of the vritra filled in anger with his hundred-edged and blood-bearing body. (3)
The births of Varuna are stabilized by his glory. Varuna has possessed the vast Dyava-Prithvivi, has inspired the great sky and the spectacular constellations twice and made the earth vast. 
O ghostly and explosive like an arrow, o a substance like a forest and an enemy-destroying manu! Defeating the enemy is your natural quality and you possess the best speed. Be affectionate towards us in the war because of the yajnakarma. A lot of people call you. 
O burn! You are indra's oz, strength and semen. You are the power that makes Indra new and you are the opulence of Indra. I make you with the ability of yoga that gives victory by combining you with Indra related yogas. (3)
O slanderous aschinikumaro! Just as Bhujyu, the son of Tugra king, called you, so I will invite you to my yajna by my praises. It is by Your grace that the earth and the heavens have been met. O yajna swamis! May this old weak sage get rid of sin and get a long life. 
Seasons, substances, folk, months, sides, days and nights followed him. (17)
This made the committee, the assembly, the army and happiness favorable to him. (2)
O property-seeking men! I complete you with the edge of samvatsaras, months, seasons and time-related milk. May Indra and Agni and all gods allow you prosperity without getting angry. (4)
The suns who know the three places of knowledge, the bright suns who know the birthplace of the gods hidden in these three realms, they see the good and evil of human beings and fulfill the desires by becoming masters of human beings. 
O man! We humble your voice that is expressing anger. We also calm the sound of your mouth that produces anger. The implication is that we calm your anger. You are not able to speak against us. In this way, we mix your mind in our mind. (3)
The bhrigus who served the agni held the agni in space, the habitat of water, and among the offspring of human beings. May agni, the God of the early horses and gods, defeat all our enemies. 
 O praisers! Praise the agni that destroys the enemies. Their smoke can move everywhere. No one can stop the light of these. They are going to know everything. You worship them with havi. 
The radiance of agni is filled with the brightness of Usha and Yagya. She edits the yajnas and is combined with the devas. He should establish agni for the divine, mutually met and best luminous host. (6)
O Sacrificial God! As far as the extent of heaven is concerned, as far as the earth's world is expanded, as far as the Sapta Sindhu (sea) is wide, we can take energy from you. May we be able to accept it by your grace. (26)
O lord of all, Som who connects the green colours and horses in the chariot! You go to all the realms. May those horses bring you sweet and bright water and may all the people fast in your fast. 
O Indra! Our yajna would have to call you to have sat down at the right time. The kushas have been mixed with each other and the stones have merged with each other in the morning to squeeze the som. 
This hymn made with the desire of wealth should be received by the earth, space, flora and herbs. Let all the gods be invoked towards us. Mother Earth should not let us be misunderstood. 
The makers of krita decorate her like a bride who receives it with gifts. We drive away the same act. Let that act go away from us. (1)
Those with visible power and the shura admire the host with the maruts through the power of Indra. Indra has performed many virtuous deeds like the chariot making of Ribhu. 
Dyotman, like the daughters of Dulok, sat in the place of the yagna day and night, with a form of adornment. O ladies who desire and have riches! In your adornment and wide space sit the devgans desirous of the havya. 
For what reason will Indra, as ever-growing, revered and friendly, come before us? Because of what thoughtful deeds will they be facing us? 
 O agni! Agni is light, light is agni. Indra is jyoti, jyoti is inder. The sun is the light, the light is the sun. 
O Indra! On the occasion of war, you will be trying to take away money from a man who scares you, at that time whom will you kill with your horses named Green or Hari and whom will you honor by giving money? At that time you provide your wealth to us. (3)
 O agni! You want the good of human beings. Please protect us from enemies both far and near. 
The yogis, while giving up attachment, perform actions with their body, senses, mind, and intellect, only for the purpose of self-purification.
Those who sit on the earth with the glow of light and knowledge like the light of the agni usha, and in the struggle against the sun, the sage who protected the sage who was like a brave enemy, O Bharadwaj! Please such an all-eater and ever-inspiring agni. 
O Usha! You are Govati and Ashwavati. You are going to bring day after night. You give us sons and money. 
 Indra is brilliant. All gods respect him. He killed ninety-nine enemies with a weapon made from bones donated by Dadhichi Rishi. 
May the constellations falling from their place by the meteors falling from the sky give us peace. The acts (witchcraft, tricks) and vampires done by the enemies to kill us should calm our troubles. The poison puttillaries made by digging the ground and wrapping bone, hair etc. should give us peace. The meteors should calm the evil of seeing the meteors falling from the sky. The obstacles in the nation should also be calmed down. (9)
Tvashta Dev should combine the well-handled forms in this yajna. This sacrifice should be for the sake of Tvashta Dev. (8)
Someras is a rainy, energizing and green radiant. For Indra, Soma is inspired by the water of the river. 
Drinkable, uninhabitable and beloved somrass of gods is home to the one who knows the sun and the heavenly agni. Devgan Som increases the agni with food for production, fulfillment and holding. 
O earth and sky willing to give us food and the mutually mixed earth! Both of you, being vast, spread out and worthy of the yagna, give us huge wealth, including a wife, and protect us. We became masters of chariots and dasas because of the fruit of our yajnakams. 
O host and host wife! The anger made by others should not reach you. You may not even get the magic of killing done by others. You should live in this place healthy. O Brahmaudana! Sing to the wife, host, etc., buffaloes etc. should be received with the animals and you stand in front of the host with these gods worthy of yajna. (22)
The three-year-old, the rain-doer and the food-holding mon are worded by the words of the hymns. Som gives gems and wealth to the hymns while covering the waters like Varuna. 
Hey Mon! You and Indra both donated a group of horses and cows. You freed the cows stopped by the pangs and the lands of those men by force. O Indra and Mon! What you two enemies have done is the truth. 
 O praisers! Praise the agni that brings glory to the gods in heaven. The god you worship as a favor, your havi agni reaches that deity. 
O Indra! Give us the grain that you like best. Let us deserve to get that auspicious food. 
O agni! Your fame is spread in earth and heaven. You ignite and spread attractive red smoke all around, satisfying all the gods. (17)
Who knows the use of scholarly verses? Who represents the qualifying voice of seven places? Who can be the eighth person over the seven priests? Who could know Indra's horses? 
Just as people go to the rich with the desire to get wealth, so our praises go to Indra and Varuna with the desire to get wealth. People go to Indra asking for food like beggar women. 
O leader and wealthy lord, Ribhu.o! Don't be your drinkers by drinking our somras. Now you go. Turn your workers and able ass your man-made chariot towards us. 
 O Indra! You are glorious and powerful. You are the one who does the best deeds and pervades the whole world. 
When Indra had picked up the unhindered thunderbolt to kill the great demon Vritra and hit him with a thunderbolt, he made Vritra below all the beings of the world. 
The Supreme Divine Personality said: O scion of Bharat, these are the saintly virtues of those endowed with a divine nature—fearlessness, purity of mind, steadfastness in spiritual knowledge, charity, control of the senses, performance of sacrifice, study of the sacred books, austerity, and straightforwardness; non-violence, truthfulness, absence of anger, renunciation, peacefulness, restraint from fault-finding, compassion toward all living beings, absence of covetousness, gentleness, modesty, and lack of fickleness; vigor, forgiveness, fortitude, cleanliness, bearing enmity toward none, and absence of vanity.
One whose mind remains undisturbed amidst misery, who does not crave for pleasure, and who is free from attachment, fear, and anger, is called a sage of steady wisdom.
The meritorious and the Krantkarma Som go to the most beloved birds of Dolok, buried and squeezed between the squeezing planks. 
O man! May this gem protect you from the enemy, from the sin god called Nirtiti, from the fear of witchcraft and from death. (7)
Fifteen servants of me the Great cook twenty kinds of havi. I consume those hives. Thus both my wombs are full. Inder is the best. (14)
This time form holds seven seasons like wheels in the divine order. There are seven navels of this Samvatsar form period and its axis i.e. hey is not going to be destroyed. That Samvatsar form kaal is the first to arise and divine, expressing those seven bhuvanas and the creatures living in them. (2)
To complete the yajna, today must be opened the bright and peopleless doors. Don't let them shut down. 
Hey Ritvijo! Inspire our yajna for devpuja, send us praises for the sake of wealth and on the occasion of the yajna, open for us a skin vessel full of somras. O water being released by the Ritvites! Be happy for us. 
O Savita Dev! You know that these are six pairs made one by one. The pairs that are made up of each other want to be contained in it. It means the inclusion of six seasons of two months in the year or time. (5)
I am the Sāma Veda amongst the Vedas, and Indra amongst the celestial gods. Amongst the senses I am the mind; amongst the living beings I am consciousness.
O Indra! Destroy the yellow, fierce-word vampires and put an end to all the demons. 
Aditya, with good intellects, becomes the master of all the wealth to give to the man for whom he gives home and life-saving food. Their defense is hassle-free and benign. 
O darbhamani! You are the one who hurts the heart of the hater and the mind of the enemies. Destroy the houses, fields, animals, etc. of those with evil hearts, in such a way that the sun dries everyone. You should satisfy the wicked who are without fear. (2)
O agni! The dead person who goes up with the word 'swadha' as your sacrifice, inspire him to go near the fathers. The rest of its body receives life. O Jativeda Agni! This person met the body again. 
Just as the dove finds the unfamiliar place by placing his children in a difficult place, Indra, kept in a very secret place and surrounded by a pile of stones, attained The Mon in heaven. The pangs had locked the cows in the goshala. Just as Indra, the superior of the Angiras, discovered the goshala, so did Someras. The water was stopped by the cloud because of the food. Indra pierced the cloud and poured out water and expanded the grain on the earth. 
O agni! You were able to sit in the yajnashala, ignited with significance, and at the same time, to offer prayers, so the havyadata ritvijs and the host follow your identity. 
The radiant rays of the great agni do not hinder the praiseors. The rays of the agni with sakha, kalyankarta, praiseworthy, desireful, great and adornment-faced agni go to the gods and are famous to heat up in sharp. 
O Indra and the wind! You come here and separate your horse from the chariot here to drink somers. 
O Indra! Even the vast and strong mountains can't stop you. No one can stop you from the money you want to give to a parrot like me. 
O Indra! These learned Brahmins accept you superior to themselves. Come close to brahmins and someras ritvijas endowed with these mantras. (2)
O you are pure, Mon! You should rain with praise for the glory of the gods and send it to us for food. 
In all the horses, the chief, fast-moving and dynamic dyadiras, knowing the things that are well worth knowing, agree with usha, surya, adityas, vasus and angiras. 
We have learned from patient men in particular that the effect of education is something else. The effect of ignorance is something else. (13)
If the Brahmin's cow is not returned by the Kshatriya, it destroys all his brothers. (6)
 O Mon! You are born of divine water. You publish the yajna. Please encourage your juices. All you want. Please accept Havi. You illuminate the earth and the heavenland 
Four sons of Mashari Raja and three sons of Jayasheel Ayavas Raja suffer me. Hey friend and Varun! Your chariot with a very wide and pleasant light shines like the sun. 
O Indra! May your attendant Rudraputra Marudgana be found in this shelterable yagna and may the people of the maruts also receive our havya. 
Hey, sing! You come back to us. Don't you go to anyone other than us. Sing rich! You irrigate us with milk. O agni and mon who give money again and again! You give us the money. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You fill your stomach with somras to protect the host. O World, Jinja! When the ritwijs fill the yajnashala and you rain water. At that time, the young women and streams are not defeated by the dust, but the dry rivers are also filled with water. 
 As the rivers go towards the sea, so all the people bow down in front of your anger. 
We offer shobhan eulogies for these Indras. Praises are being made for Indra in the yagyamandap of the worshiping host. Just as a thief gets the money of sleeping people quickly, in the same way Indra gets the money of asuras. Bad praise is not used against men who give money. (1)
To those whose minds are always united with me in loving devotion, I give the divine knowledge by which they can attain me.
O agni! We Brahmins worship you in front of you. We wish to get wisdom from you. You are a propertyholder. You destroy the wicked every day. We salute you again and again. (26)
O agni! You are well nourished and you are the best food. Lakshmi resides in your charming varna. You are the protector of food, the protector of sin, the great rich, the abundance of all things, and all the more extensive. 
The mortals have given birth to immortal, decayless, firm-toothed and sinful agni. Just as people make joyous words at the birth of a son, so ten fingers together speak on the origin of agni. 
The sun, which showers desires and water, rises from the sea near Udayachal. Through the sun that rises and controls enemies, we make the people in front of us sleep- control. (1)
O my friend Stotao! You should praise Virajo and Indra here in the yagnashala. (11)
O mighty and powerful agni! Bring the famous wealth to us and nourish us by defeating our enemies. You give us food and make us prosperous in war. 
O you with heroes and the most powerful Indra! The Stotagans praise the happiness and strength you have given as the enemy-conqueror and the tribhuvan-protector. O Indra! May we, the Bhardwagotrian sages, receive the best strength and happiness you have given us with our hymns. 
May the opulence-rich Indra Dev, the omniscient Pusha and the evil-destroying wing- Garuda Indra Dev be pleased to do our welfare. Jupiter Dev and all the above mentioned gods should be good for us. (19)
Idras renounce the friendship of the ancient yajnakartas and become friends of ordinary yagyakars by doing violence against them. Indra lives with the Stotas for many years except for the careless subjects. 
O gods! Please go to the host's houses for their welfare. You are able to bear the load. You give happiness to the heroes. They are motivators for knowledge. Please join the chariot. (33)
This is the salutation for those pitars 
O Ashwinikumaro! You gave King Pedu a white-coloured, Indrapradatt, Shanruhanta and a horse to challenge the enemies in the struggle, the shanruparabavata, the fierce, the giver of thousands of money, the Sechon samarth and the hardang horse. 
 O Mon! You are the holder of the world and the knower of speech. The priests are refining you well. 
O great Maruto! You together with Indra drink this well squeezed mon. This same havya has given the songs to the host and by drinking it, Indra killed Ahi. 
O men! Do not hide our sons, grandsons etc. in this place through the actions that the enemies who behave against you have done before. I present this medical deed done to you to protect them. (7)
Like Indra's charity, we, who invoke the charity power of Garuda, climb on it like a boat for welfare. O vast, vast, wide and solemn Diya-Earth! Let us not perish in the coming and going. 
O Indra! Come to this yajna with the horses of the Romans like the doers and the peacocks. Just as the lock-breaker traps the bird, so no one should restrict you. You cross them like the paths crossing the desert and come to the yagna. 
O Indra! Add ghee to the group of Kush. Kush's group is dedicated with ghee. Go to the divine navel with the group of Kush, along with the arishyagans and vasuganas. For them. (22)
O agni! You are a sage, holy and a priest of the five varnas. We want you. We sing hymns to you and assume in upyam. That's your native place. You are dominated. We also want to dominate with agni. (9)
O century! Sing and fulfill all our wishes by giving horses. We praise you by meditating well. 
Get fat from your fat. May the leather meet the leather and the blood dripping from your body is restored to the bone with the effect of mantras and medicines. Let your meat meet the meat. (4)
 O agni! You are the ambassador of the world. You are immortal, dear and akshay. We invoke you in our yajna. 
O God! You become the one who gives us food in the west direction. Rainwater is your arrow. Protect us. You make us your own. We greet you and sacrifice you. (3)
Those who are free from the ego of being the doer, and whose intellect is unattached, though they may slay living beings, they neither kill nor are they bound by actions.
 May we receive brahmanaspati deities 
Poet Mon, inspired by the space, attains his beloved place as a stream created by the meritorious. 
O enemies! May Marut Dev and Brahmanspati be your teachers. Indra, Agni, Dhata, Mitra and Prajapati should be your control. O serpent named Arbudi! When your enemies are cut off, the sages should look at them and become their teachers. (25)
O agni! You are the one to sanctify. You revealed the sun. You have the ability to hold water. You hold life for go etc. Cows etc. hold water (milk) by your grace. (18)
O Indra! Swami! Even if hundreds of heavens and earths want to equate you, they cannot be as great as you. (1)
There are two kinds of beings in this world—those endowed with a divine nature and those possessing a demoniac nature. I have described the divine qualities in detail, O Arjun. Now hear from me about the demoniac nature.
Offer vishve dev in his name. Offer vishnu, who loves us and sustainer, in his name. Offer yama being watered from Som in his name. Offer Vishnu, who is being anointed by Soma, in his name. Offer the air being purified in their name. Offer a name for holy Venus. Offer in their name for som kneaded in milk. Decorate by offering sacrifices in his name for Som prepared by mixing sattu. (57)
I please the work of Taurus, the destroyer of the enemy, with havi and ajya. O Taurus! Bring down the enemies of my psalms who praise you with your great might. (1)
The stotas, the yajna-doers and the workers purify the glorious, enlarged, praiseworthy and dynamic Som with praises. 
Since the birth of Indra, the mountains had also become strong due to the fear of cutting their wings. Earth and heaven also tremble with fear of Indra. After praising Indra with many hymns, the sage named Nodha became powerful. (14)
O agni the protector of the gentlemen! You remove from us the evil, the sinful, the grieving and the afflicting enemy and make us happy. 
O agni! With your help, the gods expanded heaven, earth and sky to live by killing Vritra. Just as in the struggle, the horse receives sings, so when well called, you should shower money for the sage Kanva as you wish. 
 O Brahmins! You chant the mantra of Brihatsam for Indra. He is brahmagyani, prudent, great and worthy of worship. 
O Indra and Agni! Give us all the properties by drinking the squeezed somras in this way. Friends, Varun, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash respect this wealth of ours. 
Oh Ashwinikumaro! You conquer the Kshatriyas and warriors, kill the demons and tame diseases. You drink the host's somrus along with Usha and Surya. 
Varunadi king destroys the enemies by breaking the fort of Shrew in front of his host. After that, they also destroy the sins of the host. 
Yama first of all went our way. This route is not for divergence i.e. redemption. This route cannot be got rid of. Where our ancestors have gone, the creatures who do not know this path go according to their own deeds. (50)
Devgan give money to my hymn. I will get the yajnaphal and call the gods. In ancient times, those who performed havan for the gods be compatible with me. I should be a healthy and healthy child from the body. 
O agni! May the yajna-doer and the host who gives birth for the yagna live forever and be a godly person and hold on to your great light. O God of agni! You, together with friends and Varuna, protect him from sin by tej. 
In fear of the Vrittar Asura, the stoetas sang the hymns of great, cheerful, powerful and soaring hymns of heaven. At that time, the Marudaganas who protected the paradise encouraged Indra to kill Vrithra by fighting the vrithra and following the hymns to protect humans. 
O Indra! King Aurva and Chitraratha, who lived across the Saryu, used to call themselves Arya. You killed them immediately. 
O Bhava and Sharva! I know your importance. Know your importance as I say. Under the rule of both of you, this whole world is illuminated. Bhava and Sharva combine the enemies with their weapons, kill the demons who search for what has arisen at this time with your weapon. May bhava and sharva, the masters of the two-legged men and four-legged animals of this world, save us from sin. (1)
Swaha for the devas leading the east with agni. Swaha for Yama Dev who leads the south direction. Swaha for the devas, including vishve devas who lead the west direction. Mitravarun Dev, who led the north direction, and Swaha for Marudgan. Swaha to other gods, including Bala Soma, who led the heavens above and heaven. (36)
There is swadha and namaskar for Yama, who has the best father. (74)
O vegetation! This sharp-edged axe has given you great good fortune by cutting you as a yupe. You grow as a thousand branches. We too appear to have a thousand branches, that is, children. 
O Indra praised by many! You continue to conquer the puris protected by the asuras. From there you go to heaven with attendants like desert etc. There you protect the turbulent and fast-paced fire so that they can complete their yajnakarma in the yajnagriha. Just as a lion protects the forest, so do you protect the fire. 
Hey, Pr! Go to the fathers who became invincible by doing penance, who went to heaven by penance and who did the great penance. 
 O Indra! We want you to get your protection, wealth and wisdom. We wish you for our progress. Just as women want a husband, our prayers want you. 
O agni of good deeds! You give us the loudest, wealth and singing with the power of adornment. 
Wise people call this Aditya indra, friend, varuna and agni. He has beautiful wings and a beautiful speed. Even when one, they are called by many names such as Agni, Yama, Matrishva, etc. by the scholars. 
O workman Indra! Your thunderbolt, your chariot, your horses and all the weapons are going to fulfill the desires. You are the master of the soma who fulfills the desire and fulfills the desire. You are satisfied with the workmanial somras. 
This stotao! Praise the leader maruts in this yajna, who are the strength of Indra. The very successful and unlimited wealthy, Indra's action of defeating the enemies and protecting the devotees defeats the enemy's subjects in the same way that the king who is capable of yajna defeats everyone. 
O Indra! Your yellow horses adorn in the yajna in such a way that beautiful puppets are adorned in the form of a firm, new and small tree. 
The substances that have injured the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We free the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not be freed from the trap of King Varuna. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (29)
O agni! We promote your horses for welfare sacrifices with heart-touching hymns. (77)
Hey Varun! That sin is not due to our force. Godly motion in the form of prism, anger, gambling or ignorance is the cause. It causes the small to be inclined towards sin. The dream is also going to be mixed with sin. 
May Indra, Prithvi, Pusha, Bhaga, Aditi and Panchajan increase the abode of our earth. These gods should be the best-givers of us, givers of good luck, givers, successful guides, protectors and traversers. 
O Shobhan father, a great food provider, an enemy-builder and a jataveda agni! I look forward to praising you soon. I give strength to the promising and revered agni that protects you with my bow capable of destroying enemies when adversity arises by the enemies. 
The unsquenched and praiseless somras for the purpose of The Lord Indra does not please him. I read the king who serves Indra also respectfully and a new group of mantras for Indra. 
Oh, a deathless agni! The rich men who give me fifty horses immediately after your praise, give them food, including the bright and the servants. 
O Indra! We look forward to your friendship. Protect us. When you hear our praise, be our friends and give food to the psalms. O Indra! We praise and worship you even when there is an obstacle. 
Oh good! This welfare cloth has been made by Tvashta by the order of Jupiter. Like Savita and Bhaga Devta Surya, make this woman endowed with children etc. through this cloth. (53)
O mucous disease! Just as the runaway Shunshuki deer goes away and the samvatsar that has gone has not come back again, in the same way, you leave this patient of our heroes and go in a bad direction. (3)
O Shur Indra! Come to the yagna of the one who adds to the chariot praising your beloved, the horse bearer, the adornant and the load bearer Hari. I call through praise the virtuous Aryama who do violence, who destroy the wrath of my enemy who commits violence. 
Here it ends in a space surrounded by four directions. (4)
The horse's glass is of gold and the foot is of iron. Indra with the same velocity as the mind is also different from this. God comes to eat the horse-like havya. Indra is the first to come and sit there. 
O Bhava, the creator of the world and the one who commits the violence of the world! Make us happy and come before us to protect us. Salutations to both of you, the guardian of animals and animals. Don't leave the arrow on the string of your bow towards us. Don't do violence against our humans and animals. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Your gold-plated, attractive-colored, water-pouring, fast-moving and wind-like chariot like a mind comes wearing food. By that chariot you cross all the inaccessible paths. 
The call and the desireful agni rises up. Shobhan and the smoke that touches the sky are rising. People are igniting to agne. 
Listen to our call to those famous horses of Indra who hear the call of all, keep the steps on the path, give thousands of money at the time of yajna and bring great wealth from the enemies themselves in the time of war. 
O heroic Indra! May all the songs of yajna be for you. It is for you that I recite those mantras. You are worthy of all the nourishment and call. (1)
Just as the clouds and rivers that rain from space automatically go down, so do these filtering mons cross the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair and go towards Dronakalash. 
O God of agni! The man you protect in the battlefield and the one who goes to the battlefield by your inspiration will continue to receive food forever. 
Poets, karma-walled and intelligent people squeeze the som, without weakness and without revolution, while using the words ritvij. After this, the repeated songs and hymns meet each other with the yajnasthan i.e. Uttarvedi Som. 
Serve those great gods and Goddesses and Aditi who are well-groomed and well-advanced with your swiftness and live in heaven without any one, for the welfare of those great gods and Aditi. 
The rays of Green Hair Bali and Savita Dev located in front of them appear before they rise. Ajsar (continuous) light begins to flow. As soon as the sun is born (rise), scholars are able to see all the bhuvanas. (58)
They are praiseworthy of the agni enemy, special lamps and salutations from ancient times, founded by Vabhraish. Remove enemies out of our race and of different races. 
The form of Usha and Ratri is different, yet they increase agni. Similarly, the immovable and movable nectar form udak increases the surrounded agni. The agni, which is located in the Devyagya and calls the gods, should be worshiped giving truth to all the yajna rituals. 
O agni! You are determined. Please make us bratsheel too. By your grace, we can get this wealth (in the form of Brat) and the truth from untruth. (5)
Hey Mon! You protected Indra to kill the vritra that stopped the vast waters. You fall down at this time. 
May this importance of Jangid Mani protect us from all sides. This gem destroys the vata disease named Viskand with its force. (5)
Shachipati and the scholar Indra made the kings named Turvash and Yadu anointed without anointing due to the curse of Yayati. 
The agni that resides in somlata to purify nectar juice, which inhabits animals like cows, buffaloes, etc., matures their milk, which enters the agni birds and animals and the agni that is present in humans and chaupas. May he receive what I have given him. (2)
Let us both laugh and get happiness and knowledge happily. Let us be of beautiful speed and cross the ushas while being endowed with sons etc. (43)
The man breathes between the woman's uterus and releases his own air. O soul! When you strengthen the womb, it is born. (14)
May Indra Dev destroy our poverty, intelligence and hunger. Only Indra Dev is the master of giving money. The seven rivers of Indra, such as the Ganges, increase food in the lower places. (3)
Seven horses pull the chariot with seven wheels of the sun. Seven sages stand near this chariot. Seven sisters praise the sun. The seven songs of rays are related to the chariot of the sun, which makes it juice-rich. (3)
May the sages who compose the nine verses get this sacrifice well. (6)
The kind of praise that Swami Indra, who is capable of conquering the enemy alone and of many kinds, has been given the same praise as he had desired from the Stotas. Indra saved the sage Etash, who squeezed the Somras while fighting with the sun, son of Swash. 
The brilliant Varuna, while extending the night and day, had put the hymn on my vasishtha on the boat in the best of days and made me a man of adornment by means of defence. 
We go to Indra to get friendship, wealth and power. The mighty Indra protects us by giving us wealth. 
Their thoughts are overpowered by greed and they see no wrong in annihilating their relatives or wreaking treachery upon friends. Yet, O Janardan (Krishna), why should we, who can clearly see the crime in killing our kindred, not turn away from this sin?
O Indra! We bring enough money with the help of the same arrow for the enjoyment of the Stotas, our sons and our cities. You were huge and stable at birth. 
The agni which the gods created, in which all the things of the world are worshipped. The same simple-speed agni satisfies this earth and heaven with its huge flame. 
Just as the horses attached to the chariot lead the chariot to the desired place, so do the somas we get all the money while being squeezed. 
You equip me with food, fame, glory and brahmavarchas. (5)
Agni has become omnipresent with its brightness and has taken birth like the admirable sun. Deserts are located in different places through their lamps. 
O chariot with divine qualities! You are the strength of Indra, the army of the Maruts, the friends, the womb of the sun and the navel of Varuna. In this way, you should accept Havi while serving our yajna kriya. (3)
O aschinikumaro! Those who do not receive the wealth of others and who protect the ritwijas among men, who come near you like a host chariot, grow by their own power and find shelter in the house of adornment. 
O earth of mutual separation, with many streams, with water and of holy deeds! You give water to the person who does good deeds. The lord of this world is the earth! You give us the human benevolent power. 
Heaven, space, mother of the world, father of the world and all gods are indestructible. All five people and everything that is produced is indestructible. Whatever is going to arise is indestructible. (23)
These are the ashinikumaros who shower money on the leaders and hymns! For you it has been squeezed with the help of somers stones. You come to Sompan and drink the mon in the house of the havyadata host. 
The marudgans, the words and the sons of the earth, raise the clouds up by the winds and donate the food that increases the intellect. 
O Indra and Agni! When called by our praise, you should come here from heaven, aiming at the cleansed and perfect somras and drink it in the yajnakarma we perform. 
Hey be it! Praise this agni of yajna. This will benefit us. Earth, Agni and Saraswati - these three goddesses should sit on Kush praising. (9)
They are on the path of huge shelter, praised by the merchants and intolerable by the armies. The heavens and the earth praise them. (19)
The person who reads the vedamantra-rupadi rasa made by the sages about the pavaman somdev eats all kinds of food holy by the air. 
Everyone wants to get the ultimate man. He is amazing, dear and worthy of Indra Dev. We want (superior) wisdom and (superior) wealth from him. Swaha for the ultimate man. (13)
O Indra! You give food and money for the host. You exploit crops with sweet juices like dried wheat etc. with lumps. You give wealth to the serving host and are the only master of the world and worthy of praise. 
 O agni! Water is also present in you. Kush's asanas are laid near the Yagyakund around you. We worship you. 
O Maruto! Let us give up sin through welfare and conquer cynic enemies. With the rain done by you, we should get happiness, destruction of sins, water, songs and medicines. 
Silver, lead and gold are legally added to the yajna. They should properly protect this yajna. May they please calm the agni of this yajna properly. (37)
 Hosts squeeze somerus. Someras filters with a sieve made of sheep's hair and falls down into the urn. It's green and enjoyable. It goes from stream to matkas. 
To protect our wealth we call upon Indra by the praises. Indra is the protector of wealth, who loves riches and travels to the yagnasthan. 
O men! Listen to me. Among the flora are Gandharva and Nymphs. They are going to give it pleasure. Do not destroy this gift money. Consume these two best things with this blessing speech. (9)
The praises of the priests should be the same. Let these people come together in the yagna. Their minds and minds are the same. O priests! I invite you all with the same mantra and i do your havan with the same kind of havan. 
Hey huge Adityas from all sides! The host to whom you give pleasure, even though he is of a sharp nature, is not grieved by anger, nor does he receive unavoidable sorrow. Your defense is hassle-free and adorning. 
Save your life. You are a fool. Wynn ko swaha. Look at the eye. Speak your voice. Mind blow. (23)
Be the cause of my happiness and free me from sin, without anger, with good temperature, serious and worthy of greetings by scholars. (3)
O glorious and serviceable agni! You come to drink somras with the one who comes in the morning. 
O Ashwinikumaro! The air that moves around is filled with the force of fire produced by its sons and mothers and becomes very quick to the runners by the cradles. Come by the same measures by which the sages of The Kantivana were imparted specific knowledge. 
The gods made their imperishable forms disappear from the deadly human beings. He made the sun a woman of another color. Saranyu took the form of a mare and followed ashwinikumaras. Tvashta's daughter Saranyu left the couple of Yamyami at home while leaving Surya's house. (33)
Oh my god! We place you in the father's deity named Swadha, already located in the west direction from the place of combustion and covered with blankets. Just as the earth donated to brahmins by donors follows heaven in the upward direction, so follow you by the father deity named Swadha. As a fruit of virtue, we worship those who follow the path of heaven through Havi. O God! You become the participant in this yajna. (32)
Varun, friends and Aryama raksha as well as give us happiness. Adityagana give us vast happiness and protect us from enemies. 
O Indra! At a time when the seeing psalmists, especially, praise you capable of defeating enemies and please you through them, at that time all the qualities come to you as if a tree has many branches. 
Swainy gave me ten chariots with white horses. There were brides sitting in them. A thousand sixty cows were running behind the chariots. I accepted it all and gave it to my father the very next day. 
O Brahmin's cow! Cut and burn your abductor again and again. (1)
Never break my friendship with Indra. Give me the desired fruit of Indra's dakshina. We are located near the best arms of Indra. We win every war. 
With the desire to make himself a rainer of wealth, the sage of man had pleased the agni of giving you wealth. We burn the same agni to get great wealth. 
O Indra! You plough your horses in the chariot. It's up to you who you will destroy. Who you will provide money to also depends on you. You give us money. Only those who win enemies in war get money. 
It is a ritual to mix rice put in large sum water and there is a worm to extract rice from Rathantar Sam Batloi. (16)
O Indra Dev! You are great and water-rainer. You shower oz on us. You increase the worshiping hosts. You have been absorbed in the upyam for the great Indra Dev. The book is your native place. (40)
O Marudagano! Destroy the present darkness everywhere, drive away the demons who eat everyone and give us the light we want. 
May the earth on which our ancestors did many commendable things, on which the gods fought with tyrannical demons and the earth which is going to provide shelter to cows, horses and birds, may that earth give us glory and wealth. (5)
O nastyo! Where are the three wheels of your chariot with three corners? Where are the three bonded forms of the seating place on the chariot? When were the strong donkeys added to your chariot without going? Through them you come to our yajna. 
Which commodity will we do to violence for the recovery of cows by the blazing armies of the big-eyed agni? 
Reverence, yajna, folk food and food started living around him. (4)
O wise agni! The food we gave you and the praise given to you may continue to grow forever. Always protect our sons and grandsons and keep our limbs carefully. 
I salute the sun and the frequently renewed moon, whose eyes are there and the one who has made agni his face, that superior Brahman. (33)
O Savita! You should consume ghee with your fast mind, Jupiter Dev should be pleased to expand this yajna and wear it. May both gods please establish us. (13)
O Indra Dev! We are equal. May we all be dear to each other. May we all be light. May we all be inspired together. We are all equally energetic. May our yajna conclude successfully. (57)
The Indra who killed the vrithra asura with no arms due to extreme wrath, who destroyed shambar, the non-performing of yajna pipru and the vishwashoshishta shushna, we call the same Indra to make our friend along with the maruts. 
Water with bhadra, ashs, cows and sonadis was showered and usha of all qualities should remove the darkness of our night. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
From whose glory the snowy mountains were created, who created these succulent seas, whose arms are spread in ten directions, for which other god should we make the law of Havi, apart from that god? (12)
The agnis who perform the memorandum of yajnas like Ketu should be filled with ghee by the seven hotas and come with the gods for the welfare of the host. 
At this time, by the grace of King Prithushrava, who donated money, etc., I found sixty thousand cows as horses. 
The branches of the tree extend upward and downward, nourished by the three guṇas, with the objects of the senses as tender buds. The roots of the tree hang downward, causing the flow of karma in the human form. Below, its roots branch out causing (karmic) actions in the world of humans.
 Soma is very much liked by the gods. They further increase the divinity 
O your way! With Your help, we want to remove the defeat in the practice and gambling that kills a man with the pain of thirst, who kills a man with the pain of hunger. (7)
The soul that gives birth to various forms, which is the master of this world and pervades the bodies of various beings, is the one who pervades with that intensity, O soul! Hello to you. (23)
This is a sinful habit. (11)
It is first of all copper-like color. Then Arun (red) becomes colored and then brown. The powers of these rudra devas are spread in different directions. Like thousands of rays of the sun, they have thousands of powers. We salute these Rudra Devas and seek their praise towards us. (6)
The seventh vyan of this is Samvatsar. (7)
No woman is as fortunate and a good son as me; no woman like me is going to offer her body to a man nor to spread her thighs at the time of sexual intercourse. Indra is the best." 
O Ashwinikumaro! The host who loves the yajna calls you with all the protective means. You come in the morning to accept the greetings of the host who laid the Kush, which all the gods accept. 
 The awakened host attains the best position of Vishnu through his best yajna karma. 
O Indra with a mind satisfied with the drinking of Someras, listen to the sentence I have said. I am calling you again and again with a sad heart from the misdeeds committed by the enemies. Those who are grieving my mind in this way, I cut those enemies in the same way as the axe cuts the tree. (3)
Agni appeared from them and they appeared from agni. (8)
O Indra! Protect us to consume your given food. Those who give themselves a say to you, protect them also. May your stoes have the power to praise you admirable. You always protect us from welfare means. 
Without the great Indra, there is nothing in the world. In the indra in which all the powers are located, somras is seated in the abdomen, force and brightness in the body, vajra in the hand and knowledge in the head. 
O agni! The praise-giving angels first learned the words related to mother voice and helpful in praise. Later gained knowledge of the twenty-one verses of praise. After this, he praised Usha, who knew everyone, and then from the brightness of the sun, usha of the golden golden was born. 
O very holy agni! You yourself become deep and make us deep and give happiness to the people and the psalms. You are great. Get the happiness given by my stota devas and become shobhan agni wale. 
Those who perform rituals like archanapujan etc. at night and who wake up due to building creatures, who protect all animals, they wake up to protect us and our sons etc., they also wake up to protect animals. (5)
The earth and sky had expanded for his son Vaishvanar. Just as the captive praises his master in many ways, so the clever man uses great and varied praises for the beautiful, real power and skilled leader of all. 
O Indra! When will you make us like yourself by eating our havi and listening to our praises and by performing yajnakarma? When will you come? O Indra with great fame! You feed everyone with food like a true friend. You feed everyone when you praise. 
Those who lick, purify all the realms, are dynamic everywhere, those with a good sense of mind and without death, live in human beings. Fire inspires smoke and pervades heaven with bright rays, taking a stunning form. 
The trees that are produced from the water produced by the agni god's own glory wear the dyava-prithivi and all the gods praise the water given by you, your bright glow milks the divine and rainy water. 
Harboring insatiable lust, full of hypocrisy, pride and arrogance, the demoniac cling to their false tenets. Thus illusioned, they are attracted to the impermanent and work with impure resolve.
This is the hymn! Just as the sun consumes usha regularly, in the same way the bright force serves Indra, who receives growth by listening to your praises for the sake of protecting you. They destroy the darkness-like warrior asura by Indra, the structuring power, and destroy the enemies well by crying. 
O Rajan, protector of the great yajna, the keeper of the rivers and a powerful friend and Varuna! You come before us. O fast-donating friend and Varun! You give us grain and rain from heaven. 
The cow with white feet, with four steps and making a group of arrows, should our enemies get it. This is the act! You become like Trishandhi Dev, the destroyer of our enemies. (6)
O King Varuna! This man makes many types of false speeches from morning to evening. Forgive this untrue speech. O thousands of powerful arrows! Rescue us from all sides with this untrue speech arrow. (8)
O agni! You protect our yajna with your sharp sharpness. O agni of the best knowledge! Make this yajna friendly to money. O glorious and human-seeing agni! You kill the monsters. They can't kill you. 
O man free of disease! You survive to a hundred autumns, hundred autumns and hundred springs while achieving growth daily. May Indra, Agni, Savita and Jupiter give you a hundred years of age. I have brought it back from near death by Havi, who gave me hundreds of years of age. (4)
The rays of the somras with the power of purifying sit around the secondary vaku. The ancient father of these rays protects the som prakashanrup karma. Mon, who covers everyone with his brightness, covers the space with his rays. Dhir Ritwij begins to mix som in the water that everyone holds. 
The yajna instruments that are kept, the Ritvij worships Indra etc. through those characters. Praiseworthy of praise has been installed on those characters. O Indra! The host performing yajna for you should be endowed with children, animals etc. and get the welfare power. (3)
 O Indra! You are great. Avyamrut 
Regular, wishable, special seers, radiants and king monstrosity by the Ritvijs are born in space and drip for Indra. 
I am achieving peace without violence. May my children, family members and servants attain greater status. May this shaktishalaini gem made from the varan tree protect them in all ways. (10)
Strange animals have been arranged for Adityaganas, camels, eagles and goats for Mati Devi, cows for Aranya Dev, Ruru antelope for Rudra Dev and Kwai, Koye and Murge for Vazi Dev. There is a law of cuckoo for Kama Dev. (39)
O Soma squeezed by the sages and placed in the characters! Ten fingers produced by both hands filter you in the dasapavitra made of sheep's hair with praises and sacrifices. The leaders of yajnakarma give food for the Som stotas assumed from the ritvijas. 
 O agni! Vasishtha Rishi praises you with special intelligence. You are Varun and friendly. Your wealth should be welfare. Protect us from your auspicious feelings. 
The ancient Maharishis inspired Indra's horses to call him quickly in his yajna. His stotra was originally for Indra. Just as a newly married cow satisfies its master by giving milk, in the same way, the host satisfies Indra through Someras. O Ritvijo! Worship Indra, the destroyer of the enemy, the powerful and the horse named Hari. (2)
This gem of my varan tree destroys enemies and complements desire. By wearing it, you do industry and destroy the enemies who do evil. (1)
O Lord of heaven Indra! Tear the clouds and burn us. After this, the food worth consuming came to us. Oh, the workman! You have pervaded the sky. O true power! Let us sing. 
The deserts, who have gained growth with the help of their power and found a place in heaven with their own importance, have expanded their habitat. Vishnu comes and protects the workman and the joyful yajna for his sake. They came quickly like birds and sat on the kushas laid in our yajna. 
O true form Ashwinikumaro! The medicines found in the nearby and far areas, you should get them to us. Like Vimad, give vats a house too. 
 O wind! We offer someras to you first in the yajna. You are respected. O God! You come to Sompan with a horse called Nyut. 
I had praised Dyava-Prithvi, all-famous everywhere for the creation of wealth, the water-enhancer, the creator of beings and the kind to the eulogist. 
 O agni! You are terrible for kings and enemies. You fulfill the wishes of the hosts. You are the astonishing ones, bhaskar 
O Indra and Varuna! Where nirmal, jatadhari and yajna-karma kartas served with good food and praises, in the same Dasharagya war you made Sudas powerful, surrounded by the ten kings. 
O agni! You exist in the earth, the earth (space) and the heavenland. The earth provides the best place to perform yajna. We install agni on the yajna-vedika before that to perform yajna on the same earth. Let us take strength from food and divinity from heaven. Let us attain glory like earth. (5)
Those who are in the womb of agni water, forest, immovable and movables, people give them yajnamandapa and on top of the mountain. Just as the king who desires the happiness of the people protects them, so let the agni without death do good deeds against us. 
When the fierce, devoid of the circle of enemies, stable, adorned with weapons for war and rich-minded, hear the call of Indra Stota, they do not go elsewhere. 
I praise Indra, who is tolerant, leading to human beings, worthy of worship, master of human beings and kind. (1)
 O Mon! Playing instinctively, you get the acclaimed speed, that speed cannot be measured by anyone. You are green during the day and white 
O Indra, who gives the abode! Drink this squeezed somras. O absolutely fearless Indra! Fill your stomach well. We give you somers. 
The people of Adhwaryu have invoked the gods and revealed the agni to bear the desire for the gods. Only then, Kalyanmayi mantra form appears for the accomplishment of Usha Yagya etc. related to speech and sun. (20)
We who do not do virtue do not believe in Indra. We do not believe in Indra, who is devoid of wealth and worships agni. At this time, when Someras is gone, we make The Blissful Indra our friend. 
 O Mon! Your juice is pure and bright. He is cultured with all the poems 
O agni! May that praise be very pleasing to you, giving you more food and dearer. You grow well praised by My praise. 
The havya host squeezes the intoxicating somras for Indra in this way, just as a person performs the rites of wealth like a cow or an horse, etc., to give to the poor, Indra separates his powerful, children and brave armaments enemies from him and calms his nuisance. 
The three asuras named Kalkanj, who are present in heaven like gods due to the best of their best, I call upon all the Kalakanj Asuras to protect this man and to fear the trauma defects of crows, pigeons etc. birds. (2)
 O Indra! You never leave us those who perform yajna. You are our protector. You are our brother. You keep us in your shelter. Never take us away from yourself. 
There are nectar and medicines inside the water. Let us eat them and become strong like horses. O water group! Your waves are high and the waves are fast. May your high waves please provide us food. (6)
 O beautiful indra! You are an armed man. You are worthy of worship. We hosts worship you with a variety of materials. We decorate you and deceive you with somers. We offer even more loved substances to you. You are an equinox. 
O God! Provide you with incense from Vasugan Gayatri verses. Give you sunshine like Vasugan Angira. Rudragana give you incense with trishtup verses. Adityagan Jagati give you sunshine with verses. Provide you with the verse Vaishvanar Anushtup verse. May Indra Dev give you sunlight. Varun Dev give you sunshine. May Vishnu give you incense. (60)
We praise indra, the greatest and the hearer of the call, with hymns and mantras for the attainment of the right force. 
The animal named Manvi gave birth to twenty. It was beneficial for those who had a disease in their abdomen. Indra is the best. (23)
O Swami Shiva! You become like horses carrying from your back and take the yajna to heaven with your happy bodies. The people who perform yajna are satisfied by enjoying happiness with the gods in that heaven. (10)
Through this Maya, this Prajapati, located in the form of the world soul, produces yagya etc. He is the great path to the glorious best karma fruit. It produces permanent and lasting sweet water. He has inspired the bodies of all beings through his vast body. (1)
Protect us with saraswati grains that protect the owners and hymns of food. 
O Indra! Present in front of us in this yajna and complete it. O thunderbolt Indra!  Just as the hunter hunts the deer, so too may we win the battle through your power to get wealth. 
O Maruto of equal anger! Your mother sings also lick each other as directions because of being of the same jati and the same fraternity. 
The Supreme Divine Lord said: O Arjun, this body is termed as kṣhetra (the field of activities), and the one who knows this body is called kṣhetrajña (the knower of the field) by the sages who discern the truth about both.
The sages of the tribe of Vishwamitra always keep the agni that is located among all human beings and who know all beings, always ignite. We will get the best welfare by getting the grace of those sacrificial agnis. 
Who other than me can worship the Ashvinikumaras through hymns? The sage Vatsa, the son of Kanva, raised you up by his praises. 
O som who is lying down and watering! You tap as a stream, make us successful in the districts and kill all the enemies. 
 Agni is the god of wealth and good fortune. They are the owners of cows etc. animals. He is the master of children and wealth. He is also the master of those who destroy enemies. 
O boy! I make a hundred years of your state a thousand years, a thousand years two ages, two ages three ages and three ages four ages. Accept this type of prayer without the famous Indra, Agni and Vishwe Dev shame or anger. (21)
Just as truth and falsehood are neither afraid of anyone, nor apprehensive, nor ever destroyed, O my life! Similarly, don't be afraid. (5)
 O Mon! Someras, prepared, refined and prepared by mixing water with the hands of the hosts, is being adorned. 
Indra, in the battle with the sinner Vritra, tired and frightened as a man, add the horses as moving as the maruts to the chariot. At that time they get the glory. 
O agni! We call you and ignite you while we worship you. We worship you for the sake of protection. 
O vibrating deserts! Just as the sun throws its bright light from the sky to the earth, so when you pour your power from the distant sky onto the earth, in which yagna are you attracted by which host and near to which host do you go? 
O agni! Protect us from fears of both the seeing and the unseen. You produce food for us and give us food. O shobhan worshipable agni! You donate the human things to us and follow our bodies. 
O Indra! Be our best protectors and protectors of men forever; give strength to our army. We get food, wealth and long life. 
O Ashwinikumaro! For the movement of this child and for protection, give him a house where the jackal cannot reach. Remove the enemies of this from him. (1)
O saramaya who comes again and again in one place! You go to thieves and robbers. Why do we come to indra's stota? Why do you hurt us? You sleep happily. 
The man who serves agni in his house for the sake of wealth, the agni gives him wealth. 
The one who is good for walking on the path of the earth, the best wealthy and the answer of the yagna is to be found at the altar, may he protect us both in the house and in the forest. May that earth, protected by the gods, be able to live happily for us. 
O Goddess of earth! You are able to change the elusive form like the Asuras. You have taken the form of ukha for welfare. You get comfortable and enjoy the favored havi. Please give pleasure and be present in the yajna till the yajna is over. (69)
O mighty Megh Dev! We see those whom you save. We have seen the marks of your hooves. Here is your welfare rope, which protects cowherds and immortality. (16)
 O Mon! Just as the child born immediately is bathed and cleaned, the host cleans you. You are filtered in a sieve for the gods. 
Where The Buddha expands the creation of a man, one part of that God is known only by the name of the Knowledgeable Jan Purana. (26)
The water that does welfare was melted. The ghee performed in the agni becomes water. Water is what holds agni and soma. May I get the sweet juice of this type of water with a never-diminishing force. (5)
There are three distinctions of vashas - vilipti, sut vasha and vasha. If he donates them to Brahmins, he is not going to cause anger to Prajapati. (47)
 O Mon! You are a green one. You are holy. You live in the urn. Cow's milk surrounds you. 
 O agni! Plough your fast-paced superior and skilled horses 
The sages of Vasishthagotri have praised the earth and the sky very well today. He has also praised the yajna-wielding Varuna, the friend and the agni. May the god of worship give us the best food and worthy of worship and protect us forever through means of welfare. 
O earth and sky that gladly complete the yajna! Come. We pray to you and to Havavahana Anni. 
May we always roam on such an earth which produces medicines, the opulence form of the world, the welfare and happiness dependent through dharma. (17)
In the best places, the agni emperor sits in the past and the future as a wisher. (3)
The host who praises agni through mantras, the lord of the night, Agni, gives him wealth. O omniscient agni! You follow the animal group knowing about the birth of gods and human beings. 
Others offer hearing and other senses in the sacrificial fire of restraint. Still others offer sound and other objects of the senses as sacrifice in the fire of the senses.
May Indra, who kills the vritra asura or the cloud that stops the water, be our protector. The selectable Indra is going to protect us from enemies. He is the one Indra who protects us in the end, in the middle, behind and forward. (3)
Hey friend and Varun! We are not afraid in this country. You should confront the human-eating demons from us with your radiance. They who have run away should not get me knowledgeable and cannot get my land of residence. They should attain death by striking each other. (3)
He eats in heaven when called. The world form in space is called to him. (8)
O husband and wife! Both of you attain a prosperous fortune by living in true behaviors and making true speeches. O Jupiter! Create interest in the husband in the heart of this wife. The husband spoke beautifully towards this. (31)
Pusha knows all these directions. Let them lead us in fearless directions. May the worship of those who do good, those who are glorious, full of all heroes and who know us come before us without pride. 
 O Indra! Worshippers clean somers for you. You are the God, energetic and vachaspati of all. Someras is used in yajna. 
O Rudra Dev! You keep us away from weapons. We should avoid being inconceived. We should avoid getting angry. Oh my god! Take off your bow and bow. So that the host can be fearless. Please make our generations happy. (50)
O Indra! Give auspicious blessings to this stota and establish wealth in this host. O Swami Indra! Come to this Soma's house and sit on this seat of Kush, your characters are not insultable due to their power. (5)
I praise the grandson of food, the agni that is illuminated near space and the agni produced by the meritorious in the yajna. 
O agni! Take away from us the evil deeds that we do while awake and sleeping when we are awake and sleeping, without hope, without hope, without hope. They are tribulation-giving sins. 
O you needing Indra! The sons of Vrisagiri, namely, Rish, Ambarish, Sahadeva, Bhayman and Suradhar speak this hymn for your happiness. 
O bright god! Inspire the non-donor to donate and make the mind of the panaji also soft. 
Even in the absence of a horse and a bridle, the sun moves quickly, roars loudly and climbs up gradually. People serve these unsung and great deeds as friends and varunas and praise them again and again. 
O Indra! In this yajna, make us hosts a partaker of friendship, indestructible spirit and glorious great wealth. 
Through celibacy, the girl attains a young husband. Through celibacy, the bull and horse desire to eat grass. (18)
O Maruto! You are as moving as the horses tied to the rope of the chariot and as bright as the morning light. You achieve success by destroying your enemies like a lion bird and walking around like a pathkis and raining water. 
O Indra and Vishnu! Let the horses that defeat the violent and be mutually happy bear you. Listen to all the psalms of the psalms as well as my praises. 
Possessing the radiance generated by samidha, subdued by the rules, the long-bearded brahmachari went from the east sea to the north sea. He subdued the earth, space, etc. and turned himself in his face. (6)
We are not familiar with the place of Varuna where the gods roam. Devgan should say that we are innocent from that place. Savita Aditi, Akash and friend gods also call us innocent by the grace of agni. (36)
Hey houses! May you be happy in this place. don't follow me homeowner as I move. You nurture animals etc. in all forms. I will return to you after eraning the money. Don't be afraid considering me a stranger when I come back from long distance. (7)
Vishwakarma had wished to remove the earth from the circle of demons by Havi. Then the secret bhujishya patra i.e. food consumption items began to appear. (60)
The parents who distributed the part did the rudrastuti by not giving the share of nabhenedishta, did the same rudrastuti and went to the yagna of the sages of the sages of the angira tribe who had forgotten the word and concluded the yajna by telling the forgotten seven hotas. 
O Swami! Indra is going to rain on earth. Offer a portion of the milk form of Somras to Indra. They come to the yajna wishing indra someras. (1)
O men! Other people tremble with those who perform the duty yajnakarma, so serve the agni that gives thousands of properties through your own servants. 
O Jupiter God! Please remove the defects of our eyes. Please remove the defects of our heart and mind. Please extend the pleasures for us. You are the deva of Bhuvan. Please be kind to us. (2)
Varuna, friends and agni are the best-powered, the true-doers and the true to the hymns. They are the best fast ones. Let them destroy all our vices. 
O Mon! Your heart is sea and water. Let you install us there. May your medicines and water continue to flow for us. O Lord! We pray for you. They offer sacrifices lawfully. Salutations to you. (25)
 Somerus makes a sound while being refined. Wicked people should not hear this voice. Just as the bhrigus removed the makh, sinners and dogs should be removed from the yajna. 
Fire is dear, favored, the motivator of our yajna, the messenger of all and the immortal. We call upon them to be conscious. (32)
Oh, God! The chariot of the host who squeezes the som should be ahead of the chariot of other hosts. May our sin hinder our enemies. Pay attention to Our praise and strengthen us by going by its favor. O agni! No one can do us any violence if we have received your friendship. 
It is Indra who has made the darkness of the sun light through the sun through the destroyer of knowledge and vrithra. O mighty and dieless Indra! Those who wish to perform yajna for the purpose of your heavenly pursuit do not violence to anyone. 
 O Indra! There is no other hero like you, no horse keeper like you, nor the master of horses, nor is there anyone as strong as you. You sit in a horse-driven chariot. 
O God of death! You move away from the host by a different path from Devyana. O God of death with eyes and hearing all things! I tell you not to kill our children and our heroes. 
The moving and fast-receiving sun attains the east direction by getting udayachal. They then go to their father Akash. 
May Indradi Dev, who is full of deeds and knowledge, the vessels of hospitality in human yagnas, the deathless, the knower of the truth, the recipient, the one who joins the yagna from the front and receives everything, may Indradi Dev receive our praises and food. 
O agni! You enter your House again. You are sleeping on earth as if a child is sleeping in the mother's lap. Please be kind to be welfare towards us. (39)
 O Mon! You are running towards the sieve fast. Hosts are refining you for your good fortune. 
O Ashwinikumaro, the leader of the yagnas! Just as kings with the ultimate glory are awakened in the morning, so praises are recited to awaken you in the morning. O Ashwinikumaro worthy of the yajna! You go to the host's house every day. Which host's faults do you end and whose sacrifice do you go with the princes? 
The sacrificial animal or man born at the beginning of creation was washed by the rainy season. Through that man, the gods named Sadhya and Vasu performed yagna. (11)
O stotao! Chant the hymns that lead to Indra's proximity to me. They give huge wealth of indra thousand numbers. (1)
O God! May that demon be separated from his body and from his sons. He reached the bottom of all three types of earth, that is, hell should be attained. Let the food and fame of that sinner be destroyed. Destroy the spiteur who wants to kill me day or night. (11)
O agni! We belong to all three of your origins. We in the three worlds and in heaven, the three distinctions are criminal and the learned Brahmin violent, O Rohitdev! Make it weak while trembling and tie it with your ribs. you know. They also know how to consume all three of your motions. Such an angry God K. (21)
O Brahmanaspati Indra! All these directions become blurred due to the storm and it is not known which direction it is. Make those dark-covered directions favorable to me and make them welfare. (6)
O agni! Because you are going to see the Lord and all the people equally in many lands, we call you into wars. 
The conch originated first in paradise and then in the sea. The gem brought from the origin of the river and made of gold-made conch and conch should increase our life. (4)
The evil and dirty deeds we have done in marriage and in the chariot of barat, we fill it with the blankets of the sweet-spoken man. (66)
One who knows this is protected from the west side by two months of the rainy season and Vairoop and Vairaj are favorable to him. (9)
O Shur Indra! You rained a large amount of water, which was stopped by the Vrithra Asura. You released that water. You had threw down the asura Vritra, who considered himself to be without death, being promoted by the praises. 
The first takshak was born in sarpo, who was revered in serpents like a Brahmin in humans. He had ten heads and ten mouths. Due to being born before the serpents of Kshatriya etc. jatis, Takshak first drank nectar located in heaven. Som i.e. brahmin who drinks nectar should make the juice produced from takshak kand root etc. inferior to the effect of poison. (1)
The night crossing is not visible. At night, the world becomes one and the same, not visible separately. The world trembles, and the creatures are unable to move around at night. O dark night! May we attain Your last name i.e. morning without the obstacles of snakes, tigers, thieves, etc. This is a good night! Let us achieve welfare. (2)
Oh my god! You are huge and in the south direction. Rudra is your god and Indra dev is the ruler. You are a retentionist. May The Panchadash Stoma bless you with the honor of earth. Make you strong and strong. Install brihatsam in space. Establish the sages in the divine world. They establish the first born God in all the gods. Install them in the divine realm. They should establish the first god in all the gods. (11)
By using the words of the two stones used to squeeze the somras, drive away the demons and remove from us the evil dreams, the death and the demons that eat everyone. May we get happiness related to adityas and maruts. We ask for the same famous defense of the gods today. 
O agni! Just as a child of a crooked snake is caught with difficulty, it is also difficult to catch you. Just as an animal left in the grass eats grass, you burn the forests. 
O aschinikumaro! Thus go to the house of the hymn while praising you to drink the sweet somras. 
 Gayatri, Trishtap and Jagati sing saamas in thousands of ways in verses. Richas with hundreds of verses are sung for the gods. 
O Ashwinikumaro with the best knowledge! You protect us for wealth, for strength, for the happiness enjoyable by men, and for advancement. 
When leaving after marriage, divinity covered her and eyes became anjan. At this time, Dyava-Prithvivi were her treasures. 
O agni! You are born of the sun, the master of all, and everywhere you are moving. Just as Gopal sees animals, in the same way when you see beings with a view to protecting them, you receive the fruit of praises. O global! You protect us by welfare means. 
Those who have done many heroic acts in the Indra Sangram are going to give more food to the Shanruvadkarta, Vrithrahanta and The Stotas. 
The adi Deeptiman, the pratikshan navin, the one who calls the gods and the supreme guardian of the people, ignites the agni with the best of praises. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You have given wealth to the sage of the elderly through your deeds and wisdom. You listened to Shanyu's voice while calling and made the old cow as milch like a watery river. 
O friend and Varun, who is without hatred and save from sorrow! Let us get food for your satota food and be prosperous. 
The yajna is established by praising the kings and seven hosts. Someras is refined with cow's ghee etc. 
Both Yajna Shakti and Dev Shakti are expected to be pleased to spread their four legs. Please please spread both the powers in heaven and earth. Both powers are strong. They make us strong or semen. Imbibe strength and bravery for us. (20)
O Savita! Let us duly complete this yajna by your grace. Please make Yajnapati fortunate. Your rays are divine. Sanctify our food with those rays. Our food is going to make Vachaspati Dev stronger. Swaha for Vachaspati Dev. We also found that food delicious. (1)
O aschinikumaro! I have described your ancient deeds. I am the master of beautiful cows and heroes as well as the master of the nation. Just as the owner of the house enters the house without hindrance, in the same way, I also enter old age by enjoying a long life with my eyes. 
The bull's waist is of Adityas, the back of Jupiter and the tail of Vayu Dev. With that, it vibrates the herbs. (13)
O Ashwinikumaro! You have sent down the praiseworthy light from the sky. You bring us a strong food. 
Singing is a man's wealth and good fortune. Indra, make such a wish that I can sing. Chhana's somras is proven only in cow's milk and yogurt. O human beings! The songs that are seen are Indra. For this, I want to perform indra's yajna with heart and knowledge through cow's milk, ghee, etc. (5)
Indra's horses, which join the chariot with the yashogan mantras of Indra departing for war, join the chariot. (3)
O agni! You should drink sompan like tvashta dev with wife. We dedicate sacrifices to you. O Prajapati! You are a semen holder. You make us semen. You are mighty. You hold might for us. We are powerful. (10)
We join Indra, who is fierce, conquers enemies in wars, has fruitful praise like debt and is not suppressed by anyone. Indra, the best of the chariot owners, recognizes the fast-moving horse. The donor Indra is present in many hosts. 
O Indra, the rain-giver and the thunderbolt! At the time when you killed the enemy who took away the money of the dog, O Shunrupret, the workman and the natural enemy-destroyer Indra! At that time, you drove away the bandits in the battlefield and destroyed them and helped the dogs and made them successful. 
Man attains only the two steps of the heavenly Vishnu while describing the vibhutis. On their third footing, man cannot even find birds flying in the sky. 
When Indra and Agni, with the enemy-defeating force, sit in a chariot and walk to destroy the vritra that steals cows, those wealthy ones have a sharp-edged and bright vajra in their hands. 
Indra night, day, space, the seas that hold water are more than the vast air, the marginal rivers of the earth and humans. 
For the man who does not give cow to the scholar, gives it to another Brahmin, the earth becomes inaccessible along with the gods. (23)
Whatever you see as beautiful, glorious, or powerful, know it to spring from but a spark of my splendor.
 O Mon! You are intelligent and supreme. You rise up like the sun and be divinely light and benefit everyone. 
Therefore, let the scriptures be your authority in determining what should be done and what should not be done. Understand the scriptural injunctions and teachings, and then perform your actions in this world accordingly.
We have sung the adornment of the Dhanaswami Maruts in this hymn. They accept him. This wish-filled Maruto! You separate the enemies from a distance. You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
 The sorted sommers should increase the strength of friends, Varuna and Marudagana. He should also increase the strength of Indra. May he please the air to give us food, money. Someras is unique 
 O Mon! You make us knowers of horses. You make us horse- and goan and golden. Please shower thousands of streams. 
We call indra, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the hearer of praises, the fierce of enemies, the demon-destroyer in the war and the conqueror of the wealth of the enemies. 
O Lord indra of the ganas! You sit in groups of hymns. You are the most skilled among the workers, near or far away, without you there is no sacrificial work. O Lord of Wealth Indra! Make our hymns elaborate and bizarre. 
O Maruto! Sitting in the yajnashala, he calls you again and again, praising your donations that go everywhere. This wish-filled Maruto! The yajnakar who is the protector of the host, he is mayaless and praises you through the hymns. 
O Lord of power Indra! The Sages of The Kanvagotriya have raised you up by the uqth. The squeezed mon pounded you. 
When the host's shelterable agnis are lit and rise up, the bright annes permeate the last part and cloud of the world. 
This wife was never displeased with me, nor did she ever shame me; it was pleasant to my friends and to me. Thus, I also abandoned the perfectly friendly wife because of the only dice. 
To whom the whole world is a slave, to whom all the Aryans are slaves, the generous people are enemies to him. May Indra Dev bless us with Ayushman. They should give us wealth so that we can consume that money. (82)
 O Indra! You are going to do hundreds of deeds or you are going to have hundreds of types of knowledge. That somers we took out for you. You enjoy drinking that juice and give us pleasure too. 
In the long run, there will come a time when the sister will make a person other than her brother a husband. Oh, beauty! Imagine making someone other than me a husband and make a gift to that man who is masturbating his arm. 
The juice of the medicine pleases and purifies Indra. What else is said about this juice? (28)
Friends, Varuna and Aryama give money for us and for our sons. May all paths be good for us and easy to walk. Oh, God! You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
The sages fly in the sky and see all the forms. Muni, the beloved of the gods, lives only to do good deeds. 
We worship the swami of the sacrificial light and the constantly radiant Vaishvanar agni. We ask them for the best fruit. (1)
 O agni! You give us both fame and successful ability. People should be interested to hear 
Demons and enemies have been destroyed. We are completely protected. Now we should be inclined to perform yajna along with our wife. Our resources may not be as sharp, but they have destroyed demons and enemies. We have been made completely safe. We perform yajna to get food and strength along with our wife. We respect you by meditating on food and strength. (29)
Indra said, "I live in a high and wide place of the earth, roaring like a bull with sharp horns. I protect the host in all wars who squeezes the somras and fills my stomach." 
The sun said to Atri, "O Atri! I am your servant in this kind of state. Do not swallow me by the fearsome darkness of the asuras who are inciting hatred because of the desire for this food. You are my friend and the one who follows the truth. You and Varun protect me." 
If kravyad agni has entered our house to see other agnis, then I drive it away to perform pitruyagya. He enhances dharma to be located in the destruction of sin. I drive away the agni. He should take sin along and attain the place of yajna. Jataveda agni should be revered here and bear the havi for the gods. (7)
Jupiter, established further by the devas, mixes different substances and separates the mixed and appears in war. At the time when those almighty wear food and wealth, the sun shines spontaneously. 
Protect me during the sun day. May agni protect me on earth. In air space, Yama is the protector of me from humans and Saraswati from earthly substances. (4)
O the deserters! Our praise suits you and praises each one of you. At this time, the voice of the sages through these hymns has spontaneously praised you, because you have put many kinds of food on our hands. 
Tapa in time, the cause of the world in time is Hiranya womb. In the period itself, the Vedas were prevalent with organs. Time is the swami of all. Kaal was the God and father of the people. (8)
O praiseworthy Ashchini Kumars! Drink the intoxicating, shobhan and sweet somersas given by us. 
O agni! You are meritorious, the creator of the fruits of karma, the purity, the caller of the gods and the worthy of yajna. O bright agni! You are worthy of pleasing, very important yagyapatra and praiseworthy of the meritorious ritvijas in the yajnas through the considered stotras. 
All the hymns of Pushadeva, who are not defeated by the enemies, are full of sufficient reverence. The donation of the Adityas is sinless. 
Those who are our enemies should be defeated. Let us obstruct those enemies with the ability of Indra Dev and Agni. May Vasugan please make our mind fierce, mighty and overdeva. Rudragana and Adityagan please make our mind fierce, mighty and ruler. (46)
Those who give money with indra maruts are being recognized by all human beings today because of their chariots and those who have defeated the enemies with their forces, they should be our protectors with the help of the maruts. 
O agni! Just as Savita Dev (so much) sits on top and protects us from above, please protect us. You protect us with food and nutrients from above. We call upon you by providing host advice. (42)
 O Indra! You are the most powerful of the powerful. You are a horse named Hari. You are very happy with prayers. Please have affection for Someras like a friend. 
 Hey Wayne! When you take the water of the sea and look at it like a vulture and reach the clouds, then shining like the sun, you rain water from the third world. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You definitely went to protect the Sage Vatsa. Give them unhindered and wide houses and put an end to their enemies. 
 O Mon! You are green and worthy of worship. You get jealous. Please provide food to the hosts. 
Listen, O Narashus Stotao! We offer currency named Sixty Thousand Ninety Rusham. (1)
Indra goes to many hosts. I call them from heaven, their ancient abode. My father had also called them before. 
Hey Ritvijo! You adorn the altar and light the fire before us. We and you will do this to inform the nectar in that fire." 
I invoke the mind of the moon. I pray for life from the air, eyes from the sun, from space to the region, from the earth to the body and to Saraswati for the voice of the mind. (8)
The adhavaryu salutations irrigate the agni incarnated, with a chakra on the top, pervading all sides, with a downward doorway and an intact agni. 
O Varuna! Keep away from us the loops with which man is gripped, protected by you and we attain the age of a hundred years, protecting from you in the future .
Let us get food from the maruts who are praised with the maruts and protected by the enemy Indra. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash worship that food. 
Let this winged armament go to our remote enemies. What this owl says is untrue. The pigeon has made a claw chill near the agni of our stove for the information of inauspicious, it should also become ineffective. (1)
 O Ashwinikumaro! The hosts who want light call you. I also call you who consider karma as wealth. We call both of you to protect us. We call you both to satisfy 
We beseech indra, praised by the great and many, through the ancient Somahutis. They sit on the beloved Kush and accept two types of greetings. 
O agni! You are restless, peaceful, energetic and serviced by sages. You are going to feed with food. We salute you from the very beginning. You thrive according to festivals and seasons. You nourish like a cow. Don't resort to violence. Please bless you. (43)
May the sin god bind my enemy in the same way as the rope binds the horse. The enemy who is angry for me, that enemy sin god should not be released from the loop of nirtiti. (10)
 O hosts! You sing prayers for the mighty Indra. You sing a prayer for those destroyers. By doing this, they will be kind to us, our children and our friends. 
And now hear from me, O Arjun, of the three kinds of happiness in which the embodied soul rejoices, and can even reach the end of all suffering.
Chaitra, etc., is the seventh of the six months of two months and more months, thus the seventh of the seven seasons that have originated from the same sun. The remaining six are paired, early-to-come and originate from the gods. These seasons are all-loving, located and different in nature.     They are always moving around for their creator. 
The earth is not the most important. There's someone more than them. He is the creator of the people and the protector of the Diva-Prithvivi. The lord of that grain had built his body at the time when the horses of the sun did not even begin to draw his chariot. 
The extraordinary karma of indra, the creator of all and the great, is being described. This Indra has drank Someras in somayag related yagyas and has consumed the food of Purodash. Indra, who was involved in the havanas of the three savanas i.e. morning, midday and evening and killed the enemies, has taken away the wealth of the enemies. Indra, who used thunderbolts on the mountains, had scattered the cloud that prevented the rain. (7)
They get food from the gods, sit together on the kushas of yajna and do not go to anyone to ask for food. 
May the agni as our ministerials protect our wealth from all obstacles and protect us from sin. 
O agni! My praises go to you in the same way that eager cows go to calves in the goshala. 
O rainfeder, your protection we have kimidan wan puranavajratoriv o ashwinikumaro? Protect you from us and the richEst AshwaniKumaro! Come here and hear our call. sa rahe. 
 O hosts! Cows are pure and sin-free. They are the sustainer of all beings 
O agni! You are all brothers and dear friends. You are a friend worthy of praise to friends. 
Yami- O Yama! The Deserts desire the way I have requested you. So you turn your mind to me. Then you become my husband who produces children and leave the feeling of brother and enter me. (3)
O agni! Divide our enemies and defeat them. Divide the cities of our enemies. Give us the accumulated capital of our enemies. Swaha for agni that defeats enemies. (44)
O Indra! With your help, we eliminate all our opponents in the war. I inspire your weapons with my speech proved by penance and make your dynamic speech sharp. (5)
Destroy those who are angry with us, and kill those who do our violence. O infinite rich Indra! Make us rich with beautiful and countless cows and horses. 
 O Mon! You are pure, sweet, dear to the gods, foster and rich. You are energetic. You make Indra mad. You are the light of it. You wear gemstones for the host. 
O Savita! You alone allow all the deeds and you become the worshiper by your own rays. You are adorned by holding this whole world. Sage Shyavashwa praises you. 
Urvashi said, "O son of Ida, Pururva! All these gods are saying that you will become the one who subdues death. You will perform the best sacrifice of the gods through havya and you will find joy in heaven. 
O Indra! In the house where I have been followed by food, the superior beings who have possessed Me, in that house, shakti should be established by the mother. After this, you bring beautiful things to that house. (9)
O multi-form-bearing agni! Just as people with patience and good deeds make chariots, so we hymns have made praises for you. O agni! If you accept it, we will receive the detailed victory. 
 O agni! You are pervading the forests. You are prevalent as a womb in mothers. You are also spread across the remaining substances. We human beings ignite you through samidhas. You are laziness-free. You convey the host's desire to the gods. You adorn 
O agni! You are influenced by the sun. You are full of praises of sages. Please come from your beloved dham with age, dominance, children, wealth. (19)
We saw the agni with golden flame-like teeth, bright-colored and uterine-like flames. We have praised the indestructible and omnipresent of agni. What can Indra's opponents and those who do not praise us do? 
O Indra! Just as a cow is milked in a goshala with good grass, vasishta has made a calf in the form of a hymn with the desire to milk you. The whole world calls you the master of cows. You come close to our adornment. 
 O Indra! You are our friend and guardian of the hosts. You make good preparations to protect us in hundreds of ways. 
O ballo carrying the ghost! You get separated from this car in front of us and get rid of the blasphemous words related to riding the ghost. You come to us including this car. It's good for you to come. In this Pitrumedh Yagya, be the one who gives havi for the ancestors. (49)
For the sake of getting food, I give hundred gold coins named Nishka, three hundred horses, ten thousand cows and ten garlands. (3)
Someras has been refined for Indra. Vachaspati, the swami of the world, is admired with his oz. (5)
O agni, lord of the grain! Your body is sinless like pure disgust. Your pure and delightful sharp shines like a ornament. 
O god of wisdom! Make a chihun on the hearts of the panais, soften their hearts, and bring them under our control. 
O dear and mighty Indra! You send all-pleasing extensive food and your powers to us and protect us by all means. A mother with divine qualities and well-wishing has given birth to you. 
The beloved talented Ritvijas progress by getting beneficial food from the building built in the east direction of Indra. (15)
 O agni! You are the world form and nectar form. You are the master 
O Maruto! You live in the best, middle and low heaven. O rudraputras! Come to us from these three places. O agni! You know what we give you. 
Add cow's milk for the success of Sangram in the sobras squeezed to make the gods happy after the desire and drink. 
 O hosts! We, the hosts, increase indra's fame with the wish of happiness and enthusiasm. They protect us in every kind of small and big war. Call on them to protect. Let them protect us in war. 
Thirty-three gods who sat on kushas, understand us and give us both kinds of wealth. 
The sun beautifies the sea with rain. They stumble the sea. Their original place is east direction. They are constantly moving in space and are contained in heaven. They protect Raja. They are amazing and traveling everywhere. (60)
O indra who does many deeds, especially the seer, the one who is powerful and defeats the army! We ask you for strength and strength. 
Oh, God! I serve you in a human-to-carry manner, so I beseech you to be without death and have children. I give thunder in both arms of Indra, so that they conquer all enemy armies." 
Agni is friendly to the flowing water like a well-wishing brother to his sister. Agni devours the forest like the destroyer king of the enemy. When the fire induced by wind burns the forests, at that time all the vegetation ends and the diseases of the earth. 
The desireful and advanced sharp agnies are pleased in the middle of the day and the earth, in the morning and the famous sons of Nisha and those who perform yajnakarma do the words agni. They perform zealous deeds in the yagna, live in their places and become the head of the gods. 
The hymns were hey of the wheels of Surya's chariot. The verse called Kurir was the inner part of that chariot. Ashwinikumar Surya's groom and agni were about to walk ahead of him. 
O Indra! Speed up our weapons and please the minds of our soldiers. The power of our horses and the words of our victorious chariot increased. 
The deserters who had come on stunning horses to enjoy the Somras told me that they were leaders, human-benefactors and without attachment. O sage! Seeing these kinds of maruts, praise them. 
O ghost! Gather all the parts of your body. None of your organs should be left here. Enter the places where your mind is rama in the heavens and other places. The land you love, get the same land. (9)
O seeable Indra! The wealth that you have had in your hands from time immemorial is never finished and is no less than giving to the psalms. O Indra! You are wise, bright and sacrificial. O industrious Indra! Give us home by your deeds. 
O O O O Son! You are taking us to heaven. Let us appear there with men and women. Sin gods disinhibition and enemies should not subdue us there, so follow us. I'm holding your hand. (17)
Spread a new skillet to keep the odan. This kusha asana looks beautiful to the heart and eyes. The gods should sit on it with their wives and consume this odan. (32)
The nitya young deserts accept the fate of which? Who can remove them when they come to the yagna? They fly in the sky like a hawk bird. With which great hymn shall we please them? 
The dust-blowing horses and the horses that have come to war should not find those cows. They sing don't get the vishasana sanskar. The songs of the sacrificial man should roam in a wide and fearless place. 
O burn! You are indra's oz, semen and strength. You are the one who gives Indra the power and opulence that makes him new. I equip you with water-related yoga, so that I can conquer. (4)
Saraswati gives inspiration to speak the truth and educates people with good intellect. She has accepted this yajna of ours. 
Listen to the praises of the desert host who defeated all the enemies and may the stota receive food. 
I praise the agni which Indra and the gods have established in humans in two ways and who are like a wise man. 
Usha Devi is amazing. May they be blessed for us. May those wonderful treasures hold for us. With that money, we can provide for our children in a proper way. (33)
O wife! Friend and Varun Dev introduce you to me. Saraswati Devi introduce you to me. All the creatures on earth may meet me, and the lands above and below this land may associate you with me. (3)
Hey Mon! You must come quickly to Our new and praiseworthy praises through the path of yajnarupi and spread your light as before. 
The immortal soul, that is, without death, appears from the womb with the mind of death. Out of these, the soul merges with Brahman and becomes a tadakar. (16)
O God, My God! This is a very new and soothing praise for you. We speak it for you. 
O woman! We drive away the demon who spreads your thighs for the sake of the celestial ventricle, you fall asleep in the middle of the husband and wife or who licks the fallen male semen inside the vagina. 
Indra cuts off Megh's head through his glory. They attack the cloud and reveal the seven rivers. O heaven and earth! You be our nurturer. (12)
May the omniscient, willing to fight with the asuras, those who move forward, who desire to move forward with his wife Usha and the lord of wealth, may the Sun, give us a house with bright and all the protective means and complete happiness. 
O Vishwavasu! Get up from here. We greet you. Wish to get the graceful bride who lives in the father's house. This is your part. Get knowledge of it from birth. (33)
The man whom Vajgana, Ribhu and Vibhu protect is strong, Ranakushal, Rishi, Praiseworthy, Shur, the defeater of enemies, unbeatable in battle, and possesses wealth, confirmation and son-grandson. 
Knowledge, the object of knowledge, and the knower—these are the three factors that induce action. The instrument of action, the act itself, and the doer—these are the three constituents of action.
O Indra! By being followed by you, let us annihilate the enemies greatly and inspire your thunderbolts, etc., towards the enemies, knowing the many weapons worthy of war in wars. We perform the rites of food along with chanting mantras for you. 
Give us the food we want indra, varuna, agni, aryama and savita. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash protect that food of ours. 
O Mon! Men drink you, yet you continue to grow. Air protects this Som in many Samvatsars. (4)
The havan-dharita reaches the sky by mixing the havanic substances like agni milk, etc., and by their brightness, illuminate the local, movable world as well as the night. The agni senses have spread the movable and the movable, the light and the immovable, than all the gods. 
O God of Water! Through the glory of yours, make those who hate us or those whom we hate. (5)
The sun, who is pure, rashmi- friendly, patient, bear fruit and sanctifies all beings with his wisdom, are the sons of the earth and the sky like the parents. They illuminate the earthly Shuklavarna Dhenu and the sky-like powerful bull and milk the bright milk from the sky. 
Lift you upwards for the fertility of the earth up to the sea. Medicines are produced by mixing water with this water. Medicines are also mixed with medicines. (28)
O yummy Mon! You tap into characters for the gods named Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Pusha and Bhaga. 
Swaha for the gods of all directions. Swaha for Chandra Dev. Swaha for Nakshatra Devas. Swaha for water god. Swaha for Varun Dev. Swaha for the navel (center) of the Yajna Dev. Swaha to all the gods who sanctify. (2)
Offer Indra and Marut in their names for purchase. Offer in their name for asura for purchase. Sacrifice in their name for the friend purchased. Sacrifice in his name for Vishnu sitting in his lap. Offer a sacrifice with a Nandish mantra for Vishnu sitting on Aru. (55)
O Maruto! Where is the beginning and end of that huge rainwater? To rain which you break the water like loose grass, you break the bright cloud to pieces with thunderbolt at that time. 
I divide these mentioned 100 lakshmis into two parts in the same way as the cowherd divides the cows sitting in the cowshed. May virtuous lakshmis dwell happily in me and sinful lakshmis go away from me. (4)
 O Mon! You are omnipresent and pervaded as rays over paradise. You give us prosperity by showering water in the form of rain. 
O agni! You are of yajna and you are omniscient. We choose you as messengers of the gods. You are great and eternal. Your brightness increases. Your rays touch the sky. 
O Indra and Jupiter! We call you both by eulogy to drink someras when we go to Mon Nichur. 
O wife! I make you a refuge in my arms and heart. In this way you will submit to My resolve and receive My mind. (2)
Oh sweet pitho! When the clouds rain the famous water, you come close to us as enough food. 
We now free the animals that the yagya's achas tied in the form of huge streams for the best quality of havi. Those animals should continue to hold money in the form of milk etc. for us and our yajna. Let us be able. (8)
May sages called Gobodh and Pratibodh protect you. God who does not dream, does not sleep, always protects the body and wakes up - may all this protect you. (13)
Animals of color like smoke are for spring, white color animals are for summer and black color animals are for rainy season. Rose-colored animals are for autumn, mottled animals are for hemant season and black, yellow animals are for shishir season. (11)
Just as the huge seven streams reach the sea, so all the havya annas are received by the agni. We have so little grain that our people of our jati do not get a share of it. So you know the wealth that is contemplative in the gods and get us. 
O Indra admired and praised by the praises! Rejoice in the three hymns and hymns we have spoken. 
O Swami indra of unlimited wealth! You be my assistant. Establish the power of charity in us hosts with your strengthening power. (2)
When the devas performed yajna in the male form or horse form, at that time, in the spring, with its glory, this yajna was ghrit, summer samidha and autumn yajna charu, purodash etc. were destroyed. (10)
I describe the prediled feats of the thunderbolt Indra. He killed The Cloud. After this, the waters were dropped to the earth. It then changed the course of the flowing mountain rivers. 
I'm a stota, my son is a physician, and my daughter is about to fry on the canes. Just as cows move around in the goshala differently, so we all do different things with the desire for money. Hey Mon! You drop the juice for Indra. 
Which host who gives soma today praises him by praises for his protection, the fulfillment of somerasana or yajna? O Ashwinikumaro! Who greets you draws you to his yajna? 
We pray to Dyava-Prithvivi for our protection. I also beg for protection from the rivers like mother and the mountains in Kurukshetra. O sun and usha! I pray to both of you to keep me sinless. Known mon do our good today. 
Oh, God! Remove from us our diseases and the evil that does not invoke our gods. You separate the greedy intellect from us. You take away from us the sinful wisdom of the wicked. Take your enemies away from us. You give us special happiness and well-being. 
Just as the waves of water rise quickly, so the lords of the mind of the stota who hasten to praise god send the hymns to The Mon. The hymns that greet Som go to Soma. The eulogies that desire enter the desireful som. 
Its nine cells are in various forms. (10)
The herbs hold that agni as a womb according to the season. Water-like mothers give birth to agni. The vines and trees of the forest are always pregnant and give birth equally. 
The land on which there are high, low and flat places and which holds herbs with many types of strength, that land should be attained by us in all respects and completely and fulfill all our wishes. (2)
As soon as he was born, Agni came to know the water in the breasts of his father's space. From there the streams flowed and immersed the medium forests. No one could get the agni that lived in the cave with the offspring waters of the sky, located with their welfare air-like brothers. 
O Indra! Just as horned bulls say words in cows, so those whose heart your churning gives happiness, they attain happiness, and because Indra is the best. (15)
 O hosts! Indra is Satyapati, swami of truth, Gopati and Parvatpati. They protect the worshipers as much as possible. You worship Indra. 
May the sun, who sees all the deeds of human beings, divine and graceful motion, with a thousand rays, due to innumerable works and the giver of food, establish us forever. The money that our thieves have stolen should be in the form of swadha for our ancestors. (2)
 While singing samgan, udgata 
These agni gods follow the gods and are more powerful. Just as the person sitting in the chariot takes possession of another's wife or subjects, in the same way, we should subdue the people. Established in the navel of the yajnasthal i.e. Uttarvedi and being highly bright, make the enemies who win us in the agni battle under our feet i.e. our subdue. (1)
Oh, deathless Ashwinikumaro! You may be sitting happily in this sea under the dolok or in the house of the host who wants you. You listen to this hymn of ours. 
The first prajapatis were born from god. As soon as they were born, they became masters of all the worlds. He held the earth and this thread. Let us serve the divine Prajapati through purodash etc. 
I perform this very encouraging and latest yajna and recite the praises for the son of the force, the grandson of water, the beloved and the sacrificial doer of the host and the fire that sits on the yajna-vedi with money in due course. 
O Indra! You sing in a war of praise and mutual blows and protect us to get money. In a war that benefits cows and defeats humans, warriors destroy each other and the bright armaments fall all around. 
Water is similar to the poor young woman. He surrounds the youthlike apanpanpata by being highly ornate. They are illuminated in the midst of pure bright water for the production of non-rich food. 
 O Indra! O agni! The power and knowledge of both of you work with a beneficial spirit. You have the ability to work quickly. 
O Shasta friend and Varun! With the praises, who makes your chariot, does the best deeds for you and holds you in the yajna, fill him with water and make him full of adornment. 
The demons who have cursed us through harsh words, the demons who have accepted the violence, the root of all sins, and who destroy our children, juice, beauty and confirmation, they should all eat the children of themselves or our enemies. (3)
I am the destroyer of seven enemy cities and best of shackler. I made Burvash and Yadu famous with my own strength. I made my other stotas powerful and demolished the  ninety-nine progressive cities of the enemies. 
Hey Mon! You, crushed with stones and admired by hymns, destroy the demons and come to Dronakalash by crossing the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair. 
O Indra! You are a world champion and a conqueror of all. O Indra! You are going to be called to the yagyas by many. O Indra! Inspire us to praise the means of knowledge that you do at this time. You protect us. May we be in your best Buddha, that is, your superior feeling towards us. O broad Indra! Your semen i.e. powers are of many types. May you complete us with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and establish us in sudha located in the supreme vyom. (11)
Pururva said, "I subdue Urvashi, who completes space and creates water, very much. Shobhan Karma Wala Pururva stay with you. My heart is heating up. You come back. 
O Indra! Presented for your purpose it is mixed with mon cow's milk, curd and water. The leaders of the yajna have prepared it with the help of dashapavitras made of stones and sheep's hair. You are the masters of all the worlds, so first of all drink from the place of the somras put in the agni with the words swaha and the year. 
Samvatsar is the chariot of Agni Dev, Parivatsar is its rear part, Virat Rein and Agni Mouth and Moon is his charioteer. Indra sits on the left side of them. (23)
We believe in agni. We reach their money just as cows reach home. Horses also come to the horse every day after seeing the agni. May Agni bless his priests with abundant wealth (41)
Indra, who provides strength, defeats the enemy army and consumes heavenly waters, has given earth and sky to humans. Those who praise Indra and perform the yajna please him by giving him a blessing. (8)
O Indra who sings! Let us not be rich, your servants, and do not ask anyone else for money. O Lord Indra! You give us the steady money. No one can destroy your money. 
Wise men see all the amazing events of the present and the future with the grace of Varuna. 
O brave and revolutionary agni! You protect and fulfill the desires of the one who praises you. Whoever performs the rites of the yajnasadhan havya or makes it better, you complete that person with money by completing it with strength. 
Soon after being inspired by King Varuna, you started dancing together. At that time you received the vision. That's why your name is you. (2)
We call Vishwakarma, who protects the mantras, to protect himself in the yagna today.  May they accept all our havans and become all the comforters and good doers to protect us. 
Hey Mon! You are soaked with mashed and water with both hands. You stay in the dronapatra and are filled in spoons, etc. containers. 
 O hosts! The desired fruitful Indra is present in the middle of our yajna. Let us bow down and see those visible Indra. 
The fifth of this is Apan Diksha. (5)
The poisons hidden in the grasses called Shar, Kush, Darbha, Sairaya, Munj and Veeran cling to me together. 
They are rohit i.e. red color and desired rain. They are sharp zodiac signs. The agni god who keeps the sun, earth and sky stable, the gods create the world with their strength. (25)
O self- You are the womb of nymphs, the hands of Yamraj. May I receive the auspicious part of you. I send the cruel part of you to him who hates me. O nightmare arising out of the crow's mouth! Don't be a hindrance to me. (3)
The ten fingers of the Adhwaryu people straddle the horse-like moving som in the kalash. The stothas sitting among the Brahmins speak praises. Go to Mon while being pure. The intoxicating mon enters indra's abdomen. 
The young Indras who have friends, the sages have great committees, many hymns and yajnas are great. 
When the deserts walk, they make a sound all the way along the way. No matter who can hear that sound. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! Protect the bride from the lower part of the larger cow, the part of the lower dairy, with which the property and the eyes are filled. (36)
 O agni! You are born out of force. You are the master and innermost of food. You give us a lot of food. 
May we get the best results. The horse with a shapely back should come as a yagyaphal to fulfill the hopes of the gods. We will tie him up. Seeing this, meritorious Ritviju should be satisfied. 
The person who knows this consumes food through the annad. (16)
O glorious agni! Human beings praise you by taking a vow. O Jathaveda! We praise you. You always carry the contents of the havan. 
Those who have a sense of mutual brotherhood, those of five jatis and those who are interested in yajnakarma embellish Som with the bearer words. 
O deep-hearted, the abode to all, the revolutionary, the praiseworthy of the psalms and the agni with many flames! Be luminous in such a way that we can have rich food. 
As bright as the sun and squeezed with the help of stones, Som drips while holding his juice in dronkalash. 
Wise people create praises and greetings by aiming at the great indra and the great indra. Dhir purushas do not observe indrarshi vratas. 
Hey Mon! You muster down and bring before us great food with cows, gold, horses and force. 
I radiate heat as the sun, and I withhold, as well as send forth rain. I am immortality as well as death personified, O Arjun. I am the spirit as well as matter.
Those who are as realistic as the light sun and protect people from all sufferings by their deeds, are admired by the hosts and are as changeless as form and soothing as soul, such agni is considered by all hosts. 
Hota performed yajna for Tvashta and Indra Dev. Both gods are nourishers, they are the creators of forms and animals. We worship him with prayer composed in dwipada verses. We worship for them with the power of the senses. The host should offer havi to these two gods. May the hosts please perform yajna for these two gods. (32)
O Ida Devi! You come here. O Aditi Devi! You come here. O Saraswati Devi! Please come here. (2)
O very powerful manu! You come to our yajna. You meet my father Tapas to kill the enemies. O enemies, the enemies of the enemies and the heroes who kill the demons! You bring all kinds of wealth to us. 
O Chandra Dev! Make those who hate us or those we hate with your glory. (5)
O Sun God! When you wish to add your moving horses to the chariot, no ancient demons stay near you. The famous light of yours runs behind the water with which you rise. 
The sages with beautiful hearts made chariots with well-moving wheels with the attention of the mind and without crookedness. O Vajgan and Rybhuo! We call you to drink somras in this third suture. 
O Vajrabahu Indra and Agni! Bring us money, give us and protect us through your actions. These are the rays of the Sun by which our former men went to Brahmaloka. 
O Indra! When will you fight our soldiers with the enemy soldiers and our children with the enemy, and when will you win the enemies in the war? When will you win more number of cows that give milk, curd and ghee to the enemies? O Indra! When will you give us the money? 
In this divine yajna of the earth, we establish Indra Dev in the top place of the yajna like Oz. We revere you at the top for the yajna. We revere you at the top for the yajna. We revere you at the top for the yajna. We revere you at the top for the yajna. (6)
O agni! You protect us quickly and donate money to us to eradicate poverty. May our children and our friends also fulfill their wishes with your praise. 
Swaha for life. Swaha for your own. Swaha for life. O Ambe! O Ambike! Don't take us to any unpleasant situation. O Ambalike! Don't take us to any unpleasant situation. The cold agni is lying on the samidhas of the kampile tree. The cold agni is cold with the best hives. (18)
Hey Mon! Cleanse by the ritwijas, tapco and go to the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair by saying words again and again. Enter the characters named Chamu while you play. May your intoxicating juices make Indra merry. 
O saraswati with bright colours! From your glory man receives both divine and earthly food. You become a protector, get to know us and give money to the devotees as the companions of the maruts. 
O deserters! We have protected you for many years and we give you a tribute. 
O stunning Indra and Varun! In this yajna, decorate the three saans well, complete with elaborate and somras, etc. O Indra! I had seen the Gandharvo with hair scattered due to the wind in the yagna. This proves that you went to the yagna. 
Just as seasons come after another, just as days come after another, as the latter does not renounce the first, O Mother! In the same way, make them Ayushmann. (25)
O leader Ashvinikumaro! Come here with the same measures by which you told Shanyu, Atri and the first Manu the way out of misery and fired an arrow at their enemies with the aim of protecting Syumarshimi. 
May the herbs protect me from the sin of false oath, from the loop of Varuna, from the shackles of Yama and from the loop of all gods. 
O Indra and Agni! When you are called for the purpose of defense in battles, you become greater than all human beings. You are greater than the earth, the sky, the river and the mountains. You are greater than the whole world. 
O heaven's husband, Fire! You are the master of selectable and giveable wealth. I will be your hymn for the sake of happiness. 
These friends who follow humans alone see many of the principal substances in this way with their brightness. We conduct the fasts of a friend for your welfare. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! You keep this child away from age-threatening old age. O agni! You keep it away from the nature of not giving donations and from enemies. I combine it with the sins that cause diseases and sorrows and the eternal life separated from tuberculosis. (1)
O vanjadhari Indra! You wear thunderbolts to kill demons and defeat the opposing asura armies. 
Blinded by egotism, strength, arrogance, desire, and anger, the demonic abuse my presence within their own body and in the bodies of others.
Hey Anjan! Just as the borrower returns the money to the lender, send the demon named Krita, who hurts me, to the same house as the one who sent it to me. O Aditya's eye anjan! Destroy even the near and dear ones of the evil-hearted. (1)
O God of Agni! You have been violating demons since time immemorial, yet demons cannot conquer you in wars. So you burn carnivorous monsters including the original. They cannot escape your divine armament. (18)
This is praiseworthy and praised by the stoyas Indra! You make the inaccessible routes easier for us too. O Dhanaswami Indra! You wish us. 
O radiant Mon! Fall as stream. Go to indra, your intoxicating juice. You get to air by juice your holder. 
O agni! We worship your beauty. Praise you again and again with the voice spoken with the thought of receiving you. May we adorn you with beautiful horses and shobhan chariots. You make us rich every day. 
O Indra and Varun! You give us a huge house to perform yajna for our attendant. The enemy who wants to kill the servant who performs yajna for a long time of ours, we will win that evil in battle. 
Such demons who roam around eating like dogs and want to come and do violence to undefeated Indra, wanting violence, Indra sharpens his thunderbolt to kill those demons. He must prepare his thunderbolt for indra violent demons. (20)
The stota who knows how to give Indra the joy of somapan through his praises, can pray quickly to get sufficient wealth. O rich Indra! The host who is extended by you and donated to the yagna is soon fulfilled by his servants with money and food. 
O wounded man! Let the fat of your body, which has been divided by injury, be connected and you experience happiness. The broken bone of your body should also be added. May the cut flesh from the wound of the blow be produced happily and the broken bone of your body will be connected to happiness. (3)
Hey Mon! You give us the radiant and the best force by insulting the demons and saying words. 
Hey Aditya! This violent trap created by kriya is like the trap of Yama, the son of Vivasvan, at this time the weak we do not kill the same people as before. 
You are Suvir. You create heroes. You nurture the host with money. You are the one who shines heaven and earth. Shine with light everywhere. You are the abode of light. You are going to destroy the ruin. (13)
 O agni! O Indra! Soma is the main instrument of yajna. We are inspired by their inspiration. Both of you gods are suitable fruit givers for the host. Please be satisfied by drinking someras and please give us the fruits of yajna. 
O bind! The title force in your hearts and the desire to achieve everything in your mind, I interrelated the force and that desire through this havi while performing havan. May your favorable attitude be attained by a man desirous of harmony. (2)
First of all, Soma gave for Brahman the cow that produced him. At that time Varun and Surya became associates of Som and agni used to belong to them. (2)
O men! Indra comes to give you money while wishing for his friend hosts who squeeze soma. The somras which the somras, which run the stone to squeeze, reaches the yajnavedi with the word. 
Worthy of yajna, those who do not violence to the people, those who rain the desired, satyasheel, the wicked, the creator of the gods and the leaders of the yagnas, together with the earth-sky yajnapatra devas, receive the glorious mantras. 
When Indra fixed the bank, the water of the Parushni river started flowing in the right direction, it stopped moving around. The horse of Sudas also walked his path. Indra had subdued the enemies who spoke in vain for the welfare of Sudas along with the children. 
O agni! You are the shelter of day and night. You are beneficial and you endow us with sons and grandchildren. Your worship is easy. May you bless us with health and happiness and may you continue to shine for a long time by offering us on the bed. (49)
 The sun is very bright and gives food and strength. They imbibe heaven by dharma, are the destroyers of Amitro, they are greater. They are the destroyers of enemies, demons and the wicked. They spread their light everywhere. 
Speaking around and like a calf, the mother of agni remains constant in the sky with a water vane. The word of sweet water flowing in the high sky, the origin of the water, embellishes the vane. 
O you who do it! Please Indra with your lusts. Indra provides human beings with the fruits they want. O Indra! You eat food in my form. (3)
O red colored Mon! We make you cleanse with the milk of cows for intoxication. You open the doors of wealth for us. 
In our yajna, Bharti Devi, Ida Devi and Saraswati Devi were pleased to come. May the three goddesses be pleased to warn human beings and sit on the seat of Kush. (33)
Oh my friend and Varun! You are the master of space and the water in the earth. Cloud from your inspiration gives form to water. Accept our heart as friends, Aryama with Shobhanjanam, Raja and Varun with Shobhan shakti. 
This is the realist! May we be compatible with your pleasant, beautiful and wealthy place. You protect our received and unaccounted money. Oh, God! You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
O sing! This young bull is for you. You should roam in this gaushala while playing with it. Don't abandon us and make us strong with beautiful riches. (24)
Let us walk in the path of the gods or the path of the Vedas. Whatever work we start, we can finish it well. Worship the Fire Vedas who know the path of the Vedas. Do the agni yagnas of the human beings and fix their time. 
O Indra worthy of yajna! Drink the swadha agam squeezed with the agni-like tongue. Oh, thank you! Drink the soma given by the hand of adhwaryu or consume the havya given by the hota. 
O Indra, the giver of wealth! Establish us in happiness through the world-inspiring paths that are present below your world. That is, give us happiness. (1)
Indra is like a fierce bull, who is a enemy killer and perturb men. He make the enemies cry without blinking his eyes. He alone has won hundreds of armies. 
O medicine! Do not hide your demons, vampires, etc. by illuminating the form that removes you. O herb! Waiting for the monsters to protect us who roam around secretly searching for what it is, what is it? (5)
Amongst trees I am the banyan tree; of the celestial sages I am Narad. Amongst the Gandharvas I am Chitrath, and amongst the siddhas I am the sage Kapil.
 Soma is the one who gets the increase, the one who increases the gods and the one who wants. May the filtered Somerus protect us in every way. Our former ancestors used to take their sacrificial cows to the mountains full of soma. 
Speaking great hymns, we extend the yagna and havi for the coming gods. This is the wish-filled Ashwinikumaro! Accept this audacity. Just as a fast-running angel comes, so I am enlightened before you, praising Vasishtha. 
We invoke Garuda for the fulfillment of yajna karma. He is powerful, inspired by the gods to bring soma and defeats everyone. No one can attack his chariot. He is going to destroy enemies in the struggle. Garuda is the conqueror and quick-moving of the enemy armies. (1)
 O Adityao! You are great. You give long life to our children. Please give long life to the children of our children. 
Varuna, the lord of pure force, stays in the original sky and holds the group of the best of bright ones above the top. The rays of that bright group are facing down and the roots are up. Because of them, we have life in us. 
The soul should hate the one who hates us. The one we hate should hate the soul. (5)
O Gods! We achieve limitless happiness. 
I rub the goat worthy of the temple and the one who takes the host to heaven with juice-rich ghee. With the help of this type of goat, go to heaven, which is the fruit of virtue, and get rid of the touch of sorrow and get the best sunlight. (6)
The person who had given food to the Vrithra Asura in this kitchen, Mother Aditi told Indra about it. According to Indra's wish, the rivers make their way and go to the sea every day. 
 O agni! What's the place you can't go to? You are well illuminated in heaven and earth. You are very light, good-hearted and young. We greet you and are in your shelter. 
Indra said, "Today or tomorrow is really nothing. Who knows the work that is strange? Other people's minds are so fickle that they forget to sleep whatever they read." 
O brave Indra Dev! We are yours. Those who praise you while giving you a greeting are also yours. Give those hymns the best money. They get a great deal of old age. 
O Indra! A person who does even a little bit of work like you becomes famous on earth. Come your mind to me. 
I invoke Medha Devi, full of Vedas and worshipped by Gods, Human Beings etc. I call Medha Devi, serviced by Brahmins, praised by sages and served by brahmacharis, to get the protection of Indra etc. (2)
I embellish the two principal agnis of God and the form.. Seven people are pleased with somras. Speaking the hymn, the protector of the yagnakarma and the brightest hotajan says that agni is the truth. 
May the divine water skilled in the evil destroyers that disturb my eyes, which take shelter in my knees and thighs. (2)
O Indra! You're going to shake enemies. You made the rivers blocked by the asura called Sound flow. O Shur Indra! When you cross the sea, you make Yadu and Turvasu cross the sea. 
O rich on the basis of the vast fast! May you bear a chariot more capable of carrying, worthy of praise and uninterrupted. O beautiful chin, Rishoo! Fill your stomach by drinking the great som mixed with milk, curd and sattu for pleasure in our yajna. 
O holy agni! You go to different places to receive the havi. Just as you used to go to the yagna of the former men like Manu, Angira, Yayati, etc., similarly in our yajna also come from the front, bring the devas with you and sit on the kushas and give them dear substance. 
O school! You are the nurturer of grain, happiness, rakshaka and tejaswini. The gods created you at the beginning of creation. Covered with straws, you are with good hopes and give us wealth with sons, grandsons, etc. (5)
Hey friend and Varun! Make this woman's heartless. After this, make it void of the knowledge of duty and non-duty and make it subjugated to me. (6)
O agni! You are going to complete all the yajnas. The gods have created you among the human beings. 
May the sun, the swami of the seven horses, appear before us. The region of the Sun's long journey requires long-distance. The Sun comes close to Havya like fast-moving Sheen. The very young and knowledgeable Sun, moving with its rays, is specially illuminated. 
O agni! Dadhyan rishi is the son of Sage Atharva. Atharvana revealed the greatness and the city divider. (33)
The great agni said- You are born again and again even after being erased. O vegetation! It should be the way it is completed. (7)
O godly Maruto! Who can worship you? Who can read your praises? Who can describe your virility? When you rain to donate the best water, you make the earth tremble like a ray. 
O Indra, of mutual love, sitting on gold chariots and maruto the son of Rudra! You come to our yajna with simple passages. Our praise wishes you. Just as you came from heaven to gotam, the thirsty and the one who wants water, so come near to us. 
Let us be like those who please, enhance and ignite the host agni by giving it a greeting. 
The sun, which has many pleasures, sees all and spreads rays all around, reveals the sky and the earth through its downward rays and nourishes everyone with its arms. (26)
O more hungry ashchinikumaro! Whether you are walking in space or going towards Dyava-Prithvivi, or sitting on a bright chariot, come from all these places. 
Dev Mata Aditi, separate the hair of this man's beard and mouth. God of water soak them with his glory. Prajapati should treat it for life forever and to see it. (2)
People do not think of you as moneyless or stingy again and again, so I offer you this little money. I wish that this praise of yours spreads all over the world and humans in all directions sing it. (8)
The city of gods is of eight chakras and nine gates. No one can wage a war and win this city. It has a golden house covered with hiranyamaya kosh and divine light. (31)
O agni that follows space! You install juice food in our homes, people, animals and money come to us. (2)
There is a law of harini for ahn, frog, chuhiya and pheasant for snake. There is a law of Lopash for Ashwinikumar, Krishna Antelope for Night Goddess and Richh, Jatu and Sushileka for other devgans. Jahka is prescribed for Vishnu. (36)
Urvashi said, "I am answering your point. My son will never go to you and shed tears. I will always take care of his welfare. I'll bring your son to you. O pooruva without knowledge! Now go back to your home. You won't be able to find me." 
 O gods! Somerus is bright and milky. You mix that somerus on the sky and the earth. He merges milkiness someras into himself. 
O Ashchinikumaro who kills the enemy quickly in battle! We, who are quick and brilliant in the yagnakarma, call you in this very first part of the day through the eulogies. 
Water originated from time. From time to time, Brahma i.e. Yajna etc. karma, chandrayan etc. tapa and east etc. directions were generated. Due to time, the sun rises and sets in time itself. (1)
For the ride of Indra, I have worshiped the fast running horse. That Indra should make us surabhi i.e. the swami of the cow and make us better and make our life better. (3)
Hosts worship agni, sun and air to give a havya. After this, the most successful God knows them. The learned people know the original reason for these and engage in the most secret fasts. 
The Blessed Lord said: Listen again to my divine teachings, O mighty armed one. Desiring your welfare because you are my beloved friend, I shall reveal them to you.
O Lord Indra! Please be kind that we may be your friends and fulfill our desires by our praises in the same way as we do by praising the king. O Indra! At the time when we praise, you should be present and quickly accept our praises as well as our sacrifices. 
Mitra and Varuna are the shoulders of the cow, Tvashta and Aryama are the arms of the cow i.e. the front legs and Mahadev is the arm. (7)
The great agni said- You are born even after being destroyed. Even if you are in a dilapidated state, you are exploited like havi in heaven. (8)
O agni! Today, women are fighting among themselves and the stotas are saying bitter things. Because of this, the arrow that is thrown when there is anger in the mind, with the same arrow, you pierce the hearts of the demons. 
He walked upwards. (4)
 O hosts! You worship the admirable Someras. They are worthy of worship. Indra wants Somers. Our speech should be praised by the shadow somersa. 
Savita Dev, who is a gentleman, raises his golden arms for charity. Mahan, Nityayuva and Shobhan Buddhi extend their watery hands to hold savita loka. 
Mon mixed in cow's milk goes to Dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. The green-colored mons become pure and make three places their own. 
O man! Savitadev offers you this cloth to wear. Wear this satisfying cloth and roam in the kingdom of Yama. (31)
 O hosts! You worship Indra. Indra is going to win the shanrus. They are highly acclaimed. They are as wide as storehouses of wealth and paradise. The glory of them pervades all around. All of you should worship such a knowledgeable Indra. 
O serpent named Arbudi! Show our enemies such little creatures created by Maya. Those who are walking in the sky and making a low sound. (16)
The agni enemies are known by various functionaries related to the kingdom and belong to all the gods. May the agni surrounded by animals and go against the enemies destroy all the enemies. 
Those who lay kush and hold a scratch in their hands praise the agni that gives food to human beings to find happiness, the best of the bright, the benefactors of all the gods, the destroyers of sorrows and the ones who complete the yagna of the hosts. 
O Lord of the asshs named Hari and the brave Indra! Let the height of the Mon given by us as high as mount Som up to your chin. O Indra, who is glorious and called by many! Just as horses are filled with grass, so we will satisfy you by our praises. 
O Sun with supreme opulence! You do many might to achieve opulence. Protect us through days devoid of violence of bum disease, thief, ghost, demon, agni, etc. O broad sun! Your semen i.e. powers are of many types. You complete me with animals of many forms like cows, horses, etc. and establish me in the sudha that is in the supreme vyom. (9)
The gods and humans restored the wife Jupiter named Juhu. Taking the oath, the kings gave it to brahma devi. 
 O Mon! You are the forward. Hosts refine you dynamically to get food. 
They are released from the bondage of material attachments and their intellect is established in divine knowledge. Since they perform all actions as a sacrifice (to God), they are freed from all karmic reactions.
All the gods had fled fearing the brightness of the Vrithra Asura. They were afraid of the creepy animal. 
The devotees of knowledge and the beloved mons of the gods are sanctified by listening to the praises of the hymns. Just as the charioteer drives the horse, so so the Mon moves his waves forward. 
O Vajgana, Ribhugan and Vibhugana! This feature of yours is famous among the gods that you made your old parents young and walkable again. 
 Indra is always going to grow. He is extraordinary, very powerful and our friend. With what wisdom and what satisfying substances should we worship you? By what powers will you be our ally? 
Indra, who brings the anti-yajna vivadis under the control of the sacrificial hosts and destroys the praise-oriented faces by his oriented stothas, the sage Babru took the wealth collected in the yajna praising such a wise and heavenly Indra. 
O darbhamani! Destroy the enemies who hate us like the summer sun. Just as Indra destroys the force of his enemies, so you eliminate our enemies. (3)
O Pawman Mon! Your broad, mind-like, fast-paced and intoxicating juices run on their own, like the calves of fast-moving horses. The sweet, sweet and intoxicating juices produced in heaven go to dronakalash. 
O mon of great wisdom! Make a quick passage through the stream into the most beloved body of the gods. You go saying, "Where God is, there I am going." 
O Varuna! You know what we said because you are the master of water. O sing! You know my mind. O Varuna! You know what I have said. O thousand times the power of the arrow! Free us from that sin. (9)
 O Mon! After extracting the juice, we worship you. You refine. You protect the state. You depart to attack the army of enemies. 
 Someras with the best divine qualities was received by Indra. The powerful Indra drank Someras with Vishnu. Add barley flour to that somersa. He was prevalent in Truptikari and Trilok. He also inspired Indra to do great work. 
Dice sometimes fall down and sometimes bounce up. They defeat the handers even without a hand. These divine dice become embers when thrown on the gambling board. These are cold in touch, but burn the mind of the loser. 
Brahma is compatible with the gods and Brahman behaves according to the divine subjects. Brahman is the absence of the region and Brahman is called the best wealth. (23)
Savita Dev is the Creator. We receive Savita Dev with the influence of Gayatri verses from ashwinikumar's bahu and pusha dev's hands. We accept Sabita Dev as Angira Rishi. With the inspiration of Trishtup verse, please make the earth energetic like Angira Rishi. (9)
O Soma means the son of the moon, that is, mercury and the guardian of the warriors! You are always brilliant, so O visionary Mercury! Make me, who worship you through Havi, be endowed with sons, people and wealth. (3)
O wishful and wealthy Ashwinikumaro! When I call you, come with your new and praiseworthy defenses. 
O agni! You, who are extremely illuminated by the vast brightness, destroy our enemies and our unimpressed demons. I will be in the pleasant defense of a agni that is pleasant, great, and of good calling. 
The enemy who has created the act and wants to destroy one of my legs and one finger through it, cannot do my violence. May the act done by him bless me with the effect of my mantra and herb and burn the creator of the act. (6)
O priest! You awaken the agni with hymns. Ignite with samidhas. Fire is immortal. They wear our havi for the gods. (15)
O stunning Ashwinikumaro! You make Kumar, the son of Sahdev, a long-life-old man. 
The sages who compose fifteen richas should get this sacrifice well. (12)
O Maruto! May these praises of ours go before you. Let them go to our protector and guardian Vishnu. They give the son and grain to The Stota. You always protect us with your welfare means. 
Oh, Yum! Let this ghost approach the sages who do the same penance and arise from the gods who have done thousands of good deeds, become wise and who protect the sun. 
 O Indra! You are strong, hostile and illuminating space like the sun. May Somerus also fill you with immense power. 
Ritvizzo! The Indra, who had killed the pregnant wives of Krishna Asura because of the friendship of King Rijishva, speak the word of praise along with the holy food as well as the holy food for the purpose of the same eulogy idra. They wear a thunderbolt in the right hand of the working year. We call upon the same Indra, who is willing to protect, along with the Maruts. 
 Someras is full of water and has a green aura. Som is accepting the prayers of the host. They are taking place in Dronakalash while making a sound. 
Our simple praises are mixed with the moving mon. While making the words, Som craves those pleasing praises. 
I call Indra, with an unlimited body, shaped in line with praise, fierce, adorned with adornment and the lord of the properties. 
 O Indra! Your nature expands from heaven and earth. Water and mountains consider you as their master. 
O the true-endowner, the earth and the heavens! The ancient truthful sages had obtained the desired things from you. O earth! Even those who go to war worship you knowing your importance. 
O Indra! Just as a bull with crooked horns frightens, you also frighten everyone. You can drive away our enemies. Give the riches of the man who does not give you the wealth to him who gives you the power. (1)
O agni! You are illuminated by the consecrated flames. Just as the sun adorns with rays in the high time, so you are adorned with the rays. Just as a soldier sitting on a fast horse adorns, so you are adorned with your velocity (fast). (10)
O aschinikumaro! You had shed rivers of hot milk and ghee for the atri muni who wants happiness. Hey leaders! That's why we pray for you in the fire. Just as the wheel of the chariot moves on its own on the path of the slope, so you get somers automatically. 
This dear Usha was not present in the earlier periods of midnight etc. It comes from the sky at this time and removes the darkness. O Ashwinikumaro! I praise you very much. 
O mighty, great and hostile Mon! You should drink for the sake of the gods and indra. Let us be the masters of wealth with the most soothing and soothing semen by your grace. 
The gods gave barley containing honey to humans near the Saraswati river. At that time, Indra became the swami of the plough and shobhan became a desert farmer with donation to produce food in the land by ploughing. (1)
O agni! Protected by you, we will kill the enemy's ashes with our own ashes, the enemy's enemies' enemies' enemies by our bhats, and the enemies' sons with the help of our sons. May our sons, masters and scholars of the wealth derived from tradition, enjoy being alive for a hundred years. 
O Indra! Somrup gets a lot of food you get. Give us the food we have been fed by the enemies. We increase your best strength. 
He attains skilled asch, defeater of human beings and is famous for food among those like him. Such a person who welcomes guests with money goes to all kinds of wars, always fearlessly from violent enemies. 
Indra had killed varshikh's sons by giving the desired money to Abhyavathi, the son of the Chaiman king. When Indra hit Vrikivaan, the family of Varshikh, standing on one side of the river Called Hariupia, the sons of Varshikh standing on the other bank of that river died of fear. 
But those who rejoice in the self, who are illumined and fully satisfied in the self, for them, there is no duty.
This fire is a granary, body enhancer and rich in human grain and in one form lives on the earth continuously. In the second form lives in the rain that benefits the seven lokas. In the third form this work year remains to rain the water of the cloud. Thus, the ten directions that are interconnected produce this fire. 
I have thus revealed to you the nature of the field, the meaning of knowledge, and the object of knowledge. Only my devotees can understand this in reality, and by doing so, they attain my divine nature.
Sit in two places medium and best, with sharp intensity, more abstract, lustful, multi-rich, as the footprints of the lost cow, let us know the mysterious and knowable agni of our revered and beloved hymns over and over again. 
 O hosts! All of you and all of us get to Somerus. He is somerus milky 
The oz, tej, brahma, vani, senses, lakshmi, dharma, vedas, kshatra shakti, nation, havi, yasha, might, wealth, age, form, name, fame, eyes, ears, milk, juice, food, agni, truth, ishta, purta, praja etc. of that Kshatriya are all taken away. Who kidnaps a Brahmin cow. He reduces his age. (4)
Fire is huge, ignited, situated ahead of Usha and goes from darkness to light. They appeared in front with the sun. They appeared with a destroyer of darkness. He pervaded all the folk folk differences as soon as he was born. (13)
The earth was made an altar, the day was made agni and rain was made ghrit. It is Agni Dev, who was enriched by praise, who has advanced these mountains. (53)
O Indra! May the rites of soma make you drunk. You are powerful and give more money to the psalmists. Among the gods, you are the only one who has mercy on human beings. O Indra! Please us by giving you the desired results in this yajna. (5)
O agni! You are going to get a boost from the havi. Ghee is your native place. You are a symbol of ghee. You should drink the sweet ghee of beautiful cows and protect the sons of us host in the same way as the father protects the son. Swaha for you. (17)
The gods have installed the vaishnavar agni in this loka with arousing, alar to the charioteer, yellow in colour, living in the midst of the water, omniscient, all-knowing, moving around everywhere, speeding, hostile, force-filled, all-filling and adorning the glorious flame. 
Siddhi, attainment, ending, coverage, speed, growth, excessive attainment, prosperity and the beneficial substance located in front of you is located in the Brahman of Yajnaashesh. (22)
Hey Aditya! We are integrable. O protector named Vasu! You become the guardian of humans. This friend! Let us enjoy the wealth while serving you. This is the earth! By your grace, may we be blessed. 
Prana and Apana Vayu, Nayan, Kan, Emanking Kriya Shakti, Decay-free Brahman, Vyan and Udan Vayus, Speech and Mind possessed devkrit sankalpa. (4)
O God of Agni! You pierce the skin of monsters. May your violent thunderbolt kill these demons with its heat. O jataved agni! Separate the pairs of demons. After this, the eater wolf should pull them away, desiring meat. (4)
The agni induced by the wind burns the trees spontaneously with its burning and intense flames, while using the word great. O God of agni! At the time when you are as hasty as a bull to burn the forest trees, your path of passage becomes black. O agni! You are light-lit and without flames. 
The forward-going, beautified and purified mon in water is praised. The soms who build the days, are located in the waters, green in colour, water-producing, beautiful, water-rich and light-filled chariots give houses. 
O agni! The mind of the person protected by you becomes stunning. Give him the best child-bearing wealth. O agni willing to donate the desired fruit! You're the best money giver. By your glory, let us be worthy of wealth while praising you. 
O Yajnakarma Editor Indra! You have destroyed the Vrittar Asura by adding an horse to the chariot to come close to your devotees, showered the stalled water, held the thunderbolt in both your arms and installed the sun in the sky for the sake of the sighting of all of us. 
O God! Your Shuklavarna form means day is different and Krishnavarna form i.e. night is different. Day and night are of different nature. You are as bright as the sun. O Annaswami Pusha! You possess all knowledge. Your charity be beneficial. 
 O Indra! You are always the conqueror and give money to the enemies. Your protection is never over. Like a powerful chariot, these prayers are moving towards you. These prayers are sweet and full of noble words. 
O house of stone! You are mine. The sinful murderer who wants to destroy me from the east direction, he attains destruction. (1)
Indra is a true wealth giver, so fill the characters completely and give sweet somersa. Indra is more extensive than earth. Indra, who is humanly beneficial, grows with his actions and effort. 
The admirers of the Stotas, especially the seers and the seers of the day, the ones who raise the usha and the jhuloka and the producer of the waters, are cleansed, want to enter the kalash and are admired by the manishis and drip to go into indra's belly. 
O Indra! Send us the best and variety of wealth. You have enough and more wealth for our enjoyment. 
First of all the stepless souls arose. He went ahead and completed the joy in himself. He accepted all the food by becoming a four-step i.e. meaning, dharma, work, salvation chaturvarga, that is, enjoy all the enjoyments. (21)
He became the master of a vratya i.e. groups. He raised the bow and he became a rainbow. (6)
At the time of indra, the mother of indra who conceived gave birth to, the maruts praised the heroic indra as follows: "You were born for the show of power and the destruction of enmity. "Bum be praiseworthy, energetic and more arrogant." 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages named Sikhi. (15)
O Maruto! The givers praise you well for getting the gift. It was! Worship the heavens and speak the praises of the earth. Deserts rain water far and wide, move around in the sky and expand their brightness with the clouds. 
O agni! This king, who has been removed from his kingdom, is praying to you to get the kingdom again. By your grace, he should become the guardian of the people in his kingdom. O incandescent agni! For this reason, you pervad the earth and the sky. May Vishwa Dev and forty-nine dead help you. Restore his kingdom to this king who greets you and gives you havi. (1)
O hosts! We have invited the Father of paradise to us. We have worshiped his father. We call for agni. Please sacrifice us. Savita Dev has sacrificed. Ashwinikumar accepts this havi with his arms. Pusha Dev takes this food of yajna with both hands. All gods should be pleased to take food from the mouth of agni. (11)
O best of all herbs! Let me be better. I should be better than the more superior women in the world. My step-up should be inferior to the most lowly women. (4)
For the welfare of you hosts, we go to Savita and Bhag today. Both of them give money to hosts. O leaders and many enjoyers! We go in front of you every day, wishing for your friendship. 
O enemies! People know these things of yours very well. You go to heaven, so your chariot drivers prepare chariots to take you to the yagnas as the way to heaven and do not destroy the chariot even in the absence of a path. We sit on the golden chariot of the three bonds, those who go to heaven by the beautiful path, subdue the enemies and mainly scatter the rain water. 
O Indra! You come here soon and take a huge form. The fingers of these learned human beings and hosts are quick. Bring food near to us for our upbringing and give it to us. (4)
Pigeon for day and sea chapu for night. There is a law of bats for the treaty of day and night, crows for the month and good winged (garuda) for the year. (25)
This hymn! Praise the supremely brilliant, wandering and superior swami Indra. Indra, the earth-like, is pervading this yagyashala. (10)
May this yajna give us life. May this yajna give us a sacrifice. May this yajna give us wisdom. May this yajna give us the main life. May this yajna give us contemplation. May this yajna make us bani. May this yajna give us eyes. May this yajna give us ears. May this yajna give us efficiency. May this yajna give us strength. May this yajna be all-fruitful. (2)
No one can despise the advancing, the quick-doers, the chariot-like, the constant new agni of the human beings. 
O God! Send the woman in whose womb the human beings sow the seeds, you make her a very well-being. It wishes for our thighs to spread its thighs and we wish to enter our male senses into its wide thighs. 
No one can destroy the axiom, the most famous and the all-loving splendor of Savita Dev. 
O calling Indra! Go near the hearts of the people and drink squeezed somras. 
We call Indra, who kills strong enemies and sees everyone. O Indra, the multi-rich and gentle guardian of a thousand forms 
Indra Dev is a protector. He gave birth to truth from heart, Savita Dev gave birth to truth from Purodash. Varun Dev cured the liver with medicine. Fixed the pulse of the throat. Air restored bone and bile. (85)
O friends, god! I say nothing against the man who kills the host who wishes for the gods and who speaks harsh words. I am making you satisfied with wealth. 
O Lord! You hear our beautiful praises and give the three gems, one by one, the gem, the gemstones, the three gems of gold, gem, mukta, to our host who squeezes the somras. You complete all the three classes of seven karmas, including the vision. 
 O Mon! You are the God and holy of the world. Please make us rich, prosperous and brave sons. 
O Vajradharankarata Indra! You protect all kinds of hymns. Through your true psalm, I receive your mercy. 
O protector friend and Varun! At the time when the hymns are spoken and the hosts present the simple-motion, the enemy-the defeater and the kamvarshi somers in the yajna, at that time you come to give the house and your given house is not. 
O host! Go to the wise and violence-free Indra and ask about me being wise. They give your friends the best wealth. 
May these herbs, which were taken while giving part of the ancestors in the yajna, redeem you from the sin of taking that name. (11)
 O Mon! You are holy, wavy and forward-looking. The host makes you more pure with speech. You go to Dronakalash while running and making a sound. 
Sub-gihvika is disease-free. (20)
Those who abide by these teachings of mine, with profound faith and free from cavil, are released from the bondage of karma.
Its fourth is your faith. (4)
The usha that meets with the sun rays and destroys the darkness by holding on to the light, may they be conducive to give us food today and destroy the darkness. We beg for welfare from the ignited agni. 
O Lord Indra! You kill the killers of the cow owners and the killers of the land owners. On earth, the earth is squeezed by thousands of streams. Let's exploit that. Your sons with the best deeds sing your glory. (28)
One night Somyag, two nights long Somayag, One Day Kree and Prakri name Somyag, Ukthon Somyag, subtle form related to Yajna, Yajna with emotion is located in shesh i.e. bhatrupi Brahma left after yajna. (10)
O air! You come up on the ashes called The Nyut and accept the substance that We have placed on the pillars. You are the master of the called Nyayut. All the gods are silent. No somras are drinking before you. The squeezed mon has been prepared for your bliss and our yajnasiddhi. 
Just as mothers nourish children by feeding them milk of their own free will, so do they water! You make us possess your highly beneficial juices. (2)
O Indra! Just as the old man cuts the outstretched branch of the creeper, so bum cut off our enemies and destroy the rakshas called Das. We will enjoy the wealth collected by the dasa by the grace of Indra. Let Indra and Agni kill all our enemies. 
I have done such and such a thing in the first night. I destroy that bad dream through the sins and defects I receive every day in waking state, in a dormant state, in the day or at night. (10)
Those with more wealth and enemies may be the ones who increase Visvedev Manu. O all-knowing Gods! Give us a house devoid of fear of the thief by unhindered defenses by others. 
Indra and Usha - These two gods should stop the transmission routes of all directions. At this time, the enemy armies seen far away should get very tempted and they do not have the ability to decide the work. (1)
O Indra! You should drink the somras which gayatri, who takes the form of a hawk bird, by the feet, which was not touched by the enemies by despising the protectors of space, because you are its master. 
O Indra! You wish for food in the form of havi. I praise you again and again. You give me wealth containing heroes. (3)
O Indra who dwells above! You heard the praises of the Psalms and destroyed the enemy by throwing a hard thunderbolt like a stone from the sky, throwing the same thunderbolt down.  Give us such prosperity, so that we can get more sons and grandsons and cows. 
O agni! Just as the ram goes to a place with more grass and after grazing the grass, it goes elsewhere, in the same way you first meet the burning male body parts and later after burning it, you go elsewhere. The agni that burns the forest and the body-burning agni - these two agnis also burn the creeper etc. with their flames while consuming the tree or body. (2)
Vasha gau dyau, prithvi, vishnu and prajapati. Those who are sadhya and vayu drank the milk of Vasha gau. (30)
Swaha for Savita Dev on the first day. Swaha for agni on the second day. Swaha for air on the third day. Swaha for Aditya Dev on the fourth day. Swaha for Chandra Dev on the fifth day. Swaha for Rit Dev (Truth) on the sixth day. Swaha for the Deserts on the seventh day. Swaha for Jupiter on the eighth day. Swaha for Friend Dev on the ninth day. Swaha for Varun Dev on the tenth day. Swaha for Indra Dev on the eleventh day. Twelve days for the world. (6)
Hey Indra! Sureksh means those who drink alcohol make you sad. When you start roaring then you are called like father. You get a rich man for friendship. (2)
My greetings to the sun god who has set, setting and setting. Salutations to the special Tejwan, salutations to the one who is the best radiance and salutations to the best one. (23)
O Savita! People are engaged in rules in karma related to you. O sun with strange brightness! When you leave, everyone gets involved in their own work. You protect both i.e. air and savita worlds. You both save us from sin. (3)
O Mon! You go into great and shelterable space with your various rays. O fast mon! You stay in the house of the havitata host and eliminate all the demons in the form of darkness. 
 O Mon! You are holy. You go with vayu and ashwinikumaras, so that we can have the best semen. 
Oh my god! Vishwakarma, make you sit on the surface of space. You are an astrologer. Give light to protect the life, soul and soul of all of you. Bayu is your preferred boss. With their divinity, please be as stable as Angira and be able to live. (14)
O Shami Dev (wood used in yajna)! You are the one to uplift Varun. You are the creator of Varuna's motion. You're going to stabilize them. You are the house of Varuna's yajna, the seating place of yajna. Please sit happily in the house of Varuna's yajna. (36)
 O Indra! You destroy the water-stopping cloud. Everything is being published from you just arising. Everything is under you. 
Our ancestors are Angiras. The motivators of the new speech are atharva, bhrigu and gentle. We are sympathetic to them. Welfare of priests. Have the same mind for them. (50)
The leaders were established in front of the great and the agni gods who saw the yajna. Serve the agni that gives love to the gods, with shobhan yagya, beneficial for the houses and knowing all beings. 
 O Indra! The host is going to perform somayagya 
 O Indra! You are going to do sompan. Please come to our sawan 
The demon who comes to kill us like a demon, and the demon who comes hiding her body, that evil demon fell face down in the endless pit. Grind somalata stones destroy monsters with their sounds. (17)
Holding the money beneficial to human beings in their hands, the eternal and knowledgeable agne accepts the mantras of Brahma. Agni is the master of excellent wealth while giving nectar to the eulogists. 
The ignorant do not perceive the soul as it resides in the body, and as it enjoys sense objects; nor do they perceive it when it departs. But those who possess the eyes of knowledge can behold it.
 O Mon! You are extremely powerful, with thousands of edges and are holy. Your juice filters in a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
The power of the senses like semen or eyes given by Indra should come to me again. May I regain the study of soul, wealth and Vedas. The agnis installed in yajna etc. should be revived in this place. (1)
O Lord Indra! You are great, respected and give joy to all. You come to the Som festival. Be happy to receive the sacrifice. Make us energetic. Fulfill our desires. (25)
O medium perimeter! Please you stabilize the earth. You are stable hemos spacer. Please make space stable. Uttavedika is the form of heaven. Please make heaven stable. O agni! Please scent heaven with fragrant objects. (13)
Having seen your universal form that I had never seen before, I feel great joy. And yet, my mind trembles with fear. Please have mercy on me and again show me your pleasing form, O God of gods, O abode of the universe.
O revolutionary agni! All the gods, pleased with each other, made you their messengers.  That is why, while serving you in the yagnas, the hosts serve you to call the gods. 
The Stotas do not wish to receive the Marutas quickly by praising them and get to other gods. They are known as wise, fast-paced and receive donations from fruit-bearing maruts. 
The mind of the hosts goes to the agni in the same way that the eyes of the beings go towards the sun. When the earth and the sky produce agni with usha, in that morning the agni is produced like the horses of the best color. 
The corpse eaters themselves are free from sin and protect us from evil and go to heaven. (12)
I don't know for how long usha 
Due to the inexhaustible streams and waterfalls of rivers like Ganga etc. that always flow and never dry up in the summer season, all our livestock should always prosper. (3)
Vasha Gau has been called Amrit. Vasha Gau is worshiped even after understanding death. It was only when all this happened such as Gods, Humans, Asuras, Pitras and Sages. (26)
O Vajradhari Indra! This praise is pleasing to you. Destroy the anti-Brahmanists and give us wealth. (1)
O Mon! You have been duly accepted for the fulfillment of Indra Dev and Agni. Kush's seat of both of you gods is prescribed in the yajnasthal. Indra is your friend. They are young. Som has been eclipsed in the kalash for both Indra Dev and Agni. You are the original place of both Indra and Agni. (32)
Hey, sing! At the time of tapping for the yajna you go to the protector agni. Both ears of agni are gold. 
I remove the killer defects of my body with this comb. I should not feel this fault, the earth, the sky, the space, the gods and the water should not get that fault. O agni! This defect should not be felt on the ancestors and their presiding deity Yamraj. (69)
One who definitely knows the season called Sanyati understands that this panchaudan form is aj, that is the season named Sanyati. He who donates the aj published from dakshina in the form of Panchodana burns the opulence of his unpleasant things and dams with his strength. (33)
O Ushadevi, with many horses, having many cows and giving all the property! You have great wealth to give happiness to the people. Give me the true speaker the strength and the wealth of the rich. 
O agni! You are the womb of medicines. You are the womb of flora. You are the womb of all beings. You are the womb of all waters. (37)
O agni! When you walk up and down burning trees, your speed is the most different as that of a robbing army. When the wind moves behind your flames, you clean the infinite land in such a way that the hairdresser cuts the hair of the beard. 
May the Som, who is lying in a distant or a distant place for Indra's sake and in a pond called Sharyanavata, give us the fruits of the opinion. 
O Brahmaspati! Let us be masters of wealth that is always controlled and granulated. You are all Gods, so give our brave sons a grandson. You know our praise along with the food and the grain. 
O deserters! Whatever enemy comes before us by the inspiration of you or any other man, take away his strength and food and return your protection from him. 
Rudra Dev's bow is victorious. Their bow becomes inferior to the bow. Let their bow become arrows and quiverless. The place of holding their sword should be empty. Do not see their arrows anywhere. (10)
Why is the air not stable and the mind not calm? Why are waters never unstable while desiring truth? (37)
We praise the wind, the cloud, the sky and the directions. We praise all vidishas i.e. corners of directions. Let them free us from sin. (6)
Friends, Varuna and Aryama have been adorned and have found the strength of others unstained and have composed samvatsars, months, days, nights and rituals. 
O usha with food! Today, add red horses to the chariot and bring us all the good fortune. 
I am the supreme goal of all living beings, and I am also their sustainer, master, witness, abode, shelter, and friend. I am the origin, end, and resting place of creation; I am the storehouse and eternal seed.
O Jativeda Agni! You never wish to pray to the enemy even if you stay with him. 
O Indra! The Stotas who want to enjoy more fruit quickly praise you in the same way that the som-kneaders do the stone. O Lord of wealth and Indra with horses called Hari! You share money with both the right and left hands. Don't you make us fail. 
O agni! Your flames are going to be as widespread as a hawk bird soon. Just as the black deer moves in its habitat, your flames come close and dance. Due to the production of smoke, your flames form clouds. O agni! Your radiances reach the solar system and produce water, the basis of the life of all beings. (3)
Who can add semen-laced, brilliant, unbearable anger by the enemies to the front of Indra's chariot while going to the yagna today? There are arrows in the mouths of those horses to attack the enemies. They crush the hearts of their enemies with their feet and please the friends. He who praises the host ass, receives life. 
O agni! You come. We worship for you in this way. You get an increase from somers. (13)
O night! You are the virgo of the sky. Accept this psalm of my enemy. I am offering you this hymn like a cow. 
Hey, Lord! You cut four spoons into four pieces and said, "O friend, agni! Please," replied the agni, "O Vajgan and Rishoo! You skilled people go out of the way of heaven." 
 O Indra! You defeat enemies and nurture hosts. We want protection and happiness from you. Just as the moving chariot rotates everywhere, so the host brings you to the yajna place. 
 O Mon! You are pure, the one who holds heaven, the earth and the almighty. We inspire you to go to wars. Give us food etc. 
Brahmins ask for Vasha for Soma, for Agni, for work and for Mitravarun. If they do not give vasa, they cut the master of the vasha. (26)
With thirteen letters, Vasudeva won trayodash stoma, so let us also win. Rudra Dev conquered fourteen stoms (praises) with the influence of fourteen letters, we also won with the influence of that. Aditya Dev conquered fifteen stotras with the influence of fifteen letters, we also won the same way. Aditi Devta conquered sixteen Stoms, let us also conquer them. With seventeen letters, Prajapati conquered seventeen Stom, let us also follow that victory. (34)
Indra, who gave wealth to the friend Stota, has enlarged his body to drink somers in the same way that the host who squeezes the somras expands his hymn and limits indra's qualities. 
The sages who, through their wisdom and praises, have made the horses called Hari famous, who have equipped those beautiful horses well for Indra, may they give us confirmation, food and money, wishing us good luck like a friend of the Sages. 
We call the friend and Varuna through the same mantras as the sage Atri. They sat on the cushions to drink somras. 
 Agni is going to give money. That's why you are! Offer sacrifices repeatedly with a well-filled sk 
O Indra! Enrich this Kshatriya king of mine with sons, grandsons, vehicles etc. Make this king prominent among the tarum semen. Make all those who are its enemies kings lifeless. Bum subdue everyone with this. I also make it one of the Lokpals like Indra etc. with the power of my mantras. (1)
The thousand-eyed Indra, being the doer of the curse action, joined horses in his chariot and came near us. Just as a wolf goes into the house of the swami of sheep, so let him kill the enemy who curses me. (1)
The path to death is another. Their path is different from the path of the gods. Please go back from another path. You are blind. You are hearing impaired. You are requested not to destroy our people and heroes, (7)
O very annadata and a deserted Mon! You fall down as stream and become the sweetest to the gods like Indra, Vishnu etc. 
O agni! You shine in the highest place of paradise. You shine like the sun on earth. You are a vaishvanar (agni) and omniscient. The hosts have revealed the agni with aranimanthan (rubbing of wood). Agni Dev is our guest emperor. (24)
From whose glory these snowy mountains have been born and it is the earth, including the sea, which is called, all these directions which have sides, let us worship the same Prajapati by means of the havan. 
A banyan deer has been made for Ishan Dev, gaur antelope for Mitra Dev and buffaloes for Varun Dev. Cows have been prescribed for Jupiter Dev and camels for Tvashta Dev. (28)
O God! Become a wise and moving angel and come to Me from you. O Jupiter! You come to me with a direction. I hold in my mouth a radiant praise for you. 
I am seated in the hearts of all living beings, and from me come memory, knowledge, as well as forgetfulness. I alone am to be known by all the Vedas, am the author of the Vedānt, and the knower of the meaning of the Vedas.
This omnipresent Indra! Come to this yajna. Praise the praises of Udagata, support the praises of Adhwaryu, and give everyone joy with your words. After this, increase this yajna along with our food. 
Wherever the defeated armies of the enemies are running, meet the strings of our arrows and the word of dudunbi and frighten them there and defeat them. (9)
O the rising and the gentleman Indra! What you consider yourself to be without death is the truth. 
O Indra praised by many! May the horse named Hari, acclaimed by The Priymedha Sage, bring you before us to drink somras. 
Being a part of the yajnakarma by the hosts, the varnasya, located in the womb of the ghosts and the pitiform, holds agni on the yajna vedaika. 
Without taking anyone's help, Indra alone received money to his praisers. Indra always protects the hosts and gives the desired results to humans. People who perform yajna etc. choose Indra. (7)
O enemies and enemies, inspiring friends and Varuna! You come to this non-violent yagna of ours. 
 O wind! There is no one our father, brother and friend except you. Please make our lives powerful. 
Indra, the true man, the lord of wealth and the destroyer of the vritra rakshasa, hears praise and gives wealth to the host. O Indra praised by many! Give us money in exchange for our praise. From him we will enjoy the divine grain. 
O resident, Ashwinikumaro! People who want heaven call you. O Lord of karmaroopi wealth, Ashwinikumaro! This Vasishtha also calls you to protect, for you go to all the people. 
O cow-milking adhvaryu! You come to me with the hot milk and put the cow's milk in the hot ghee, so that savita dev, the motivator of all, illuminates heaven. They sit behind Adi Usha's departure. (6)
O agni! Don't burn this dead person completely. Don't make it painful. Don't scatter its skin and body around. O Jativeda Agni! Send it to the fathers only when you cook it. 
 Someras makes Usha Tejaswini. Someras is being refined for Indra's drinking. 
Friends, Varuna, Aryama, Ayu, Ribhuksh Dev, Marudgan Indra Dev should never be alienated from us. The force that arises in the gods, we repeatedly tell the story of the same force and their might. (24)
Those who are ulukhal i.e. okhla and pestle are stones. (15)
 O agni! You give us useful advice in many works. You give us the praise you give to the cows. You give us a son-grandson. You are good-minded. Please give all this to the well-worshiped host. 
The presiding deity is static and mechanically moving like a ground. You are the rule keeper. We worship you for energy, wealth, nutrition. Indra Dev should be pleased to protect this world. (22)
O moon! You are able to see the sun along with the new moon. After this, you also appear in the art form in the dates of Tritiya etc. After this, you appear more clearly than this in ashtami etc. dates. In the holy date, you become full of all the arts. Similarly, I should also become prosperous and complete with cow etc. (4)
O Indra, lord of the aschas called Hari! No one can take away the praise of you praised by the former sages because of power or money. 
O Mon! You are holy. Your juice is strong and bright. You are everywhere and your light 
For the life-saving senses and for the happiness of son, wife, slave etc., may Vayu, Indra, Dhata and Savita take you away from death and give it to us. While protecting you, Savita Dev should not take away the strength of your life and body from you. I call upon them to suit your life. (15)
O burn! You are part of Savita Dev. You should put the semen of water and divine glory in us. For the sake of public welfare, you should place the glory of Prajapati in us. (14)
The wings of old wood and birds are worn by the rocks to form arrows. Artisans search for wealthy people to sell arrows. Hey Mon! You drop your juice down to Indra. 
Fire shines in a special way by great brightness. And by its glory they reveal all things. They ignite and destroy the asuras of sorrowful maya and sharpen the flamed horns to destroy the demons. 
The one who squeezes the somras for the rich moon Indra, Indra is direct in front of him. The rich Indra holds his hand and destroys the sacrificial opponents without anyone saying them. 
Baidya Ashwinikumar and Goddess Saraswati made havi for Indra Dev with the radiance of animals. Prepared an nectar-like powerful somras. (95)
The eater is gone, the moving creature has fled and his body is kept. O praisers! After this, play with the two sticks with which Dundubi is played. (1)
O Usha, who has come before all beings and gives knowledge of the dying sun! You stay high in the sky. Oh, very new Usha! Wishing to walk in the same path, you walk in the same path again and again as if the wheel of the sun in the sky walks on the same path. 
This day is your great wish. (11)
 O Mon! The sea is your mother. Someras, refined with ten fingers, is offered to the gods. 
Those who give a greeting to the nitya, the world-giver, the newest and the self-created Vishnu, and who call the revered birth account of this great man, they find their association. 
 O Mon! Your juice has been extracted by crushing with stones, filtered and that juice has been purified. The green someras is entering the wooden vessel of the forest in the same way as the knight goes to enter the city with his bravery. 
O Rit means friends and Varuna who enhance truth, water or yajna and have the same knowledge! I appreciate the importance of both of you. You violate those who are hostile. You protect a man who is truthful in the struggle. May such friends and Varun save me from sin. (1)
Hey, Lord! Be happy to join the Adityas, the gods worshipped at the time of the festival and the rivers that give gems. 
Just as its intimate streams, running towards the sea, complete it, so the somras placed on the Kushas provides perfection to Indra, who is located in paradise. The enemies who exploited, the enemyless and the affluent bodies stood with them as their helpers at the time of the desert death. 
We are always sober-minded. We look at the rising sun. Let agni, the lord of the best wealth, make us of this kind by holding the gods by our given havan. 
O Tritsuo! Vasishtha is coming to you. You are pleased to worship them. Vasishta stays at the forefront and holds the mantragroup and the som. Those who are somed by stones hold the adhwaryu and show the duty. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You opened the door of the cave of the asura, the force that kidnapped the cows. The gods persecuted by Balasura had fearlessly surrounded you at that time. 
O Indra! The power-generating Som salutations go to you with hymns for the great struggle. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Give us the grain containing this semen etc. light. That food provides satiety by removing the darkness of poverty. 
I have made the highest praises for Indra. By these praises I have inspired the waters of space to rain down. Those Indras, through their deeds, hold the dyava and the earth in the same way that the axle holds the wheels. 
O all-seeing and omniscient Mon! Because of your friendship, the host who praises you, you have mercy on him. 
Will the most promiscuous, dynamic horses, those who call the gods, the masters of the blissful golden chariot, the incompetent and habitable fires hear our call? Will He lead us to the heavens easily received and desired by all by our servants? 
Varuna has produced enough food for the stomach supply of human beings. They especially supply our stomach. 
Wen drop waves of water from the sky. The back of the bright statue vane is visible in the sky. The high places of the venice water find the glow in the sky. Wayne's attendants have filled the sky with the word in his place of origin. 
 O sun! O Varuna! You have enough means. Please please get us your consent. Let us be your friends. 
While being squeezed, the rays of The Som meet on the chin of the yajna i.e. the Uttarvedi. The somras meet in the place of origin of the yajna. The powerful Som creates the three raised realms for the human beings and gods to walk. The four thalis, located like satyarup som's boat, worship the host of shobhan karma by giving him the desired pleasure. 
O earth! Before you expanded, the gods told you to be expanded. At that time the bhurats entered you. Then four directions were made. (55)
O somers squeezer! worthy of respect, Give praiseworthy somrus everywhere to brave Indra. 
Tell me about the God in whom nectar and death are located and the ocean is contained in the veins of the first man, who is He? (15)
O Ashwinikumaro! You are the one who sustains the gods. It is a hymn that is innocent and wishes for Indra. Indra wishes for this for a long time. He is the one who receives Indra, the best Someras of human beings. This stotra i.e. mantra group leads to them. (1)
We call indra, who is enthusiastic in the battle of wealth, the leader of the rich world, the leader of the world, the hearer of praises, the fiercest of the enemies, the demon destroyer in wars, and the winner of the wealth of the enemies. 
O thunderbolt Indra! You broke down the seven cities while fighting his enemies to help the sage Purukutsa. In the same way, you took the side of sudas king and gave the wealth of the asura named Anho to the same havidar Sudas after taking it away like a Kusha. 
O Indra! To get ridvij wealth, please you by giving memaras mixed with cow's milk. Just as the gaur antelope drinks water when it is very thirsty, you drink someras in the same way. (3)
The sun is permeated by its light and is permeated by its light in the earth, ocean and space. The glory of the sun, which sees everyone's deeds, is spread in space. The Sun is a scholar and revered. (45)
May sapind pitar protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in resolve, in prestige, in God's deeds and in action as blessings. (16)
This bull is Indra. Therefore, it is more stunning than all animals. Just as the bull produces children inseparably, Indra does the work of other gods, producing past, future and present things. (2)
 O Indra! O agni! You are an interest seeker. Your efforts are always engaged towards auspicious works. 
O agni! You should follow the sun of the folk while extending the yajna and protect the glorious paths which are attained by yajnakarma. Make the work of agni stoetas flawless. O agni! Be praiseworthy and make the godly group yajna-oriented. 
O Fire and Mon! Eat the food given for the yajna and then fulfill our desire. O work years! Accept our service, be a comforter and protector for us, and remove the disease and fear of the host. 
O God! The host's child is the best. Please nurture the host with the best of wealth, just as the sun illuminates the earth from heaven. In the same way, May God bless us with our lives. By their grace, we should kill our enemies like a mathani. A demon named Merck is the house of sorrow. By your grace, he too should migrate. (18)
Pavman Som defeats the enemies, Accepts Shobhan praise from the front and sees everyone like the sun. 
O agni! We had received four thousand cows from the people of the country of Rusham. The golden golden kalash that they had with them as Mahavira to come for the purpose of yajna, we took it to take the milk of the cows to take away the milk of the cows. 
May the friends who attack the enemies, Varuna and Aryamadeva, come to our yagna with equal joy. May all the gods increase us, defeat the enemies and make us masters of food. 
O Rudraputra Maruto! At the time when the Brave are angry to conquer many drugs and people in battle, you must protect us from your enemies. 
Let the agni beneficial to all human beings come near us and accept this yajna, pleased with the praises made by us. (2)
Soma, squeezed with the help of stones and arms, goes into the characters and behaves like a bull. Acclaimed with praise, Soma goes everywhere with space and is pleased. Somas meet in characters, listen to praises and give money to the psalms, purify in water and worship in yagya. 
 O Mon! You are the swami of heaven and earth. Please give us strength and immense glory. We want to get accumulated glory from you. 
Indra's residence is in the earth. Just as the horse moves in the war zone, Indra climbs on his horses and moves towards the Yagyashala. O Indra! Our hymn wishes you. You also wish the host and give him unlimited money. (5)
Using the sense perceptions of the ears, eyes, skin, tongue, and nose, which are grouped around the mind, the embodied soul savors the objects of the senses.
Musk etc. are the fragrances of the forest. There are many food items, but there are no farmers. I have praised vast forests as the mother of animals. 
May Ida and Urvashi, who form a group of cows, join hands with all the rivers and have mercy on us. The most radiant Urvashi praises our yajna by saying the words and covers the hosts with her light. 
O agni! Inspire your father in the sky and mother of the earth to come here. Just as the sun inspires your light, so do you inspire your brightness. Agni himself wishes for the gods whom this host wishes. They talk about giving the desired substance and come close to the host for the yajna. (23)
May the Brahmaspatis accumulate power in your body. They destroy the enemies with the kings of Varuna etc. and stand firm even in terrible war. Vajradhari is not the one who inspires or excites Brahmaspati in a big or small war to get a strong home. 
Fierce agni expands its brightness like the rays of the sun's arm and embellishes both the earth and the sky and puts them into their work and take the bright and sarform juice from all the substances. They create a new fast covering the whole world with their mother's form of water. 
I perform havan through speech, ears and mind towards the eyes of yajna, the beginning form of yajna and the face form of agni. In this yajna spread by Vishwakarma, all the gods should come unanimously. (5)
O New Moon! Because of your importance, people who wish for fruit while living give you strength. May we get that fruit and become the swami of wealth, the full moon-filled Ponnmasi wins in the west direction and wins in the east direction. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Sage Vatsa to me had known your hymn through the best wisdom. I had put the very sweet somras and the havi named Dharma in the agni churned out by sage Atharva. 
Jupiter and Savita have assumed your age. Tvashta and vayu have possessed the soul all over your body. I sacrifice you in space with my heart. Both the earth and the sky are your bers, that is, Kush. (10)
 O Indra! You come and listen to both our words. Listen to everyone's prayers and come here and be happy. O Indra! You are strong and rich. Come here for sompan. 
 In a dronalash filled with sweet juice, the host filters the somras with a sieve made of sheep's hair and prepares it. The host's fingers repeatedly want to purify that somers. 
O Indra! Just as the Father gives His Son what he wants, so you also give us what we want. Oh my god! In this world journey, you give us the desired substance, with which we can live long and experience happiness in this world. (1)
Hey Mon! You come as early as a horse to drink our wealth and our wealth and indra and air and give us many kinds of more food. O you are pure, Mon! You become the giver of us money. 
O air! The bright som, squeezed in our yajna and held by the adhwaryujans, certainly belongs to both of you. The enough somras placed on the slanted cushions is yours. He meets all the gods and you get it in abundance. 
O Ida, three ladies! Sit on this ultra-wide kush. We've laid it out for you. Just as Ida, Tejaswini Saraswati and Bharati, who had the bright positions, consumed the havyas in Manu's yajna, so they should consume the well-kept havya in our yajna. 
O agni! You are beautiful and have special sustenance medicines. You are born between earth and heaven. You are the womb. You are a wonderful flameless and infantile form. You remove the darkness. Please move at a fast pace while making a sound from the mother form. (43)
O herb! Protect the pregnant woman from demons with two faces, four eyes, back feet, fingerless and vines coming to the front from the keys of vines and spreading the whole body in more form. (22)
O Indra! I recite the hymn that is dear to the gods as a brother. Through this hymn, there is an increase in the soma that is going to give the fruit of heaven to the host. This host living among humans does not know his age. Give us such a long life that it can perform the ritual of sacrifice etc. for you. Keep away from this the sins that destroy life. (2)
O Lord of the Grain, Indra! Come to us with a happy heart and drink the well-squeezed intoxicating somras, wishing us. Drink somras and be happy while you hear the praises spoken in the middle of the evening. 
The agni produced by sage Atharva knows all the praises and becomes the messengers of the host to call the gods. Great agnis become beloved and reverential to the host. 
We call Indra, who is visible, defeats enemies, gives residence and is happy by drinking someras, in such a way that cows call Indra in the gaushala. 
When this cow is milked, it is like a weapon. Then after the milk, the headache becomes Swaroopa. (12)
O fast pacifier as the mind, the one who showers wealth, the destroyer of enemies and the protector of many, AshwiniKumaro! Come to us to protect us by your early defense tools. 
Savita Dev recites her praises to all beings and inspires them. 
In the same way, we will serve the guardian, representatives of all gods and the work-year-old Jupiter through sacrifices, sacrifices and praises. O Jupiter! In this way, we will be able to be the masters of wealth including good children and brave soldiers. 
O agni! You give us the money with children. Savita Dev, Bhag and Aditi also give us money. 
O Mon and Pusha! One of you has created all beings, the other observes all. You protect our yajnakarma. With your help, let us conquer the entire army of enemies. 
O Indra, who does many things! May the Ritvijas, who perform the yajna karma, bring you before us. They should also make your vision in front of us. (2)
When Indra was pleased to drink someras, he rained rain water from space i.e. the sky. (2)
O you with beautiful hands! You made the third suvan with the donation of the delightful somras out of the desire for delightful karma, so you should drink the somras well squeezed from the loving senses. 
May Prajapati, who has the means to create the whole world, protect me in the direction of the land with prestige. They should protect me in the act of keeping my foot and in the place of keeping my foot. Let them protect me and serve my interest in the city where I go. I surrender to Prajapati. May this be received by Havi Prajapati. (9)
O Indra! You have permeated the earth and the sky with your glory and enjoyed them well. Those who only recited the host mantras by understanding the pronunciation of mantras, the mantras protected them by taking them as their own. Through such mantras you have removed that thief. 
O agni! People serve you through yajnasadhan, ijyas and eulogies. Safe from violent, the inspiring and omnipresent sun of rain water goes near you. 
 O Indra! You are powerful, omniscient and the master of the world. Just as undoing cows run towards their calves, so we yearn for your vision and grace. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the woodcutter cuts a tree with an axe, so agni erases the darkness. Your defenses stay with us. 
Hey Mon! You fall down from the stream so that the cows of the district of enemies may come to our house. 
O worshiper of friends, agni! Just as you burn dry wood on the earth, burn him who is our enemy and who has evil intelligence towards us. 
O Indra! Even if the sky and the earth become hundreds of thousands of suns and sky, they are not able to equate you. (20)
We serve the agni with praises, those with edible havi, those with a desireable food, those with a back of soma and a shroud, and the vidhata agni of desires. 
The herb is the best of all the medicines with a shiny radiant part like gold. It should destroy all the ayash people like straw and attack the demons. (5)
O hosts! You should wear the agni that performs yajna according to the jataveda, the hutiman and the season. May the gods be very dear and blessed by us as a means of sacrifice to the agni today. 
The string of the cow's trunk mounted on each bow made of a tree makes the word. From it come out arrows that destroy the shrubs. At that time, the whole world trembles with fear, even while squeezing somras for Indra and giving the south of the yajna for the sage. 
This is a Brahmin's cow! You are called Vishwa Devi Krita covered with thunderbolt. (8)
The rays of agni that defeat enemies go all over the place, so may our sins perish. 
O agni! You are a polykarma. Donate cow's (milk, curd) ghee etc. for the host. Give us sons and children. May our children carry on us and further offspring. Get us that welfare buddi of yours. (51)
May the deserts make us happy by giving us properties and fulfilling the beautiful dyava-prithvivi with their glory. O Maruto! May your anti-human and anti-cow slaughter weapon stay away from us. O God of Worshiper, Maruto! You come before us with pleasures. 
O wise friend and Varuna! You protect the yajna by rain and beautify the whole world through water because of the maya of the clouds. You hold the moving and revered sun in the sky. 
O agni! Make such an effort with all of you gods, so that the person who is playing the game against us and who wants to eat us falls. (3)
It lives in the shelter of agni water in the house of the sea. You tap our enemies. You make this yajna of ours sacred and welfare. (7)
Prajapati, Parameshti Pita and Pitamah followed him. (25)
 O Indra! You are ashwapati. Sages have made prayers for you. Those prayers cannot be received in any way other than the power 
 O Indra! You are going to defeat enemies. You are famous for your strength and patience in your heart, you are the giver of boons and desired results. 
Vast, great and different from each other, mother and fatherly earth-sky protect all beings. The very powerful earth and the sky strive for the benefit of the body-holders and like the parents, they take care of everyone as a form. 
Water is the owner of the desired things and gives habitat to human beings. Let's pray for medicines from the waters. 
Both your forces, invoked by rigveda and samaveda, move powerfully. Both ears are the two wheels of your chariot. In The World, you have a variable and a constant path. (11)
 O agni! When you move from the wind, you go behind the vegetation and surround it from all sides, at that time seeing you growing, it seems as if a knight is moving forward to destroy everything 
The gods with beautiful deeds and beautiful radiance attained divinity, refining their birth with kamaya tapa. By illuminating the agni of garhapatya and enlightening Indra with his praises, he should make pitar cows living here. (22)
Hey Mon! Give us light, heaven, all-good fortune and well-being. 
We place you at the forefront of the divine sacrifice of the earth. We place you at the top of the yajna for yajna. (5)
AshwiniKumar's are imperishable. You both come with eleven times three (33) gods. Both of you drink sweet drink with eleven times three(gods). You protect us and increase our age. You destroy our sins and enemies. Be our helper. (47)
The lord of the horses named Hari, the guardian of the gentlemen and indra who suppresses the enemies can be praised by the same person who is happy. They had brought a hundred cows and horses for the Dhanaswami Indra Stotas. 
 O Mon! You ask us to make it more robust again and again. Please make us fortunate with all the glory. 
O Vrithrahanta Indra! Towards the intoxicating somras in the yajna you come from far and near places. 
Vrithrahita Indra resisted the vrithra, used his force and became Ajatashatru. 
 O Indra! You are vishwa 
 Indra does the work of strong, beneficial and charity. They are residents of heaven. They are potable from shlokas 
The true, undefeated and radiant agnis are illuminated in many ways by the brightness of the gods. Without getting tired, the agni goes to his friend hosts to do their work in such a way that the horse is constantly moving. 
Oh my friend and Varun! You both hold food with wealth, so provide rich food. That vast wealth is protected by your intelligence. Day and night do not have the same power as you. Rivers and valleys have not found your divinity. The people don't even have the same wealth as you. 
O leprosy born in the mountains and powerful! You are going to destroy a difficult disease called leprosy. Come here, destroying the disease that plagues us.
The clothes made of sheep's hair, i.e., covered by dashapavittra and wearing all the splendours, are present in a character like a stable hero in the struggle caused by som cows. 
O divine pledge agni! You must destroy the enemies by igniting in your place among men. 
Praise the strength of the autonomous, the bright, the mountains, the ones who exploit the sun, those who come from heaven, those who sit on the top of the chariot and have bright food, and give them enough food. 
O Indra! Be happy with your horses, open your jaws, tongues, and subsea for the sake of sompan. O beautiful chin Indra! Let the horses bring you here. You accept our wishing. 
O agni! Due to being as strong as the seedling of Somlata, the limbs of this man should attain complete perfection. Make this virtuous man healthy to survive. (13)
O Jupiter! "The thief who wants to kill us in secret, find him and break him away from the sharp armaments and conquer our enemies with your weapons." O Rajan! Throw the violent thunderbolt from all around on the miscreants. 
O Brahmins! You sing the stoms for Indra. You go beyond the spell form speech. O praisers! You make Indra full of someras. (1)
The rays of the sun are as enlightening and as bright as agni. These rays simulate humans. (15)
O God kubera, the god who gives wealth! I perform havan for the happiness of Indra etc. gods from Havi to get my opinion money etc. Kubera, the fourth god among the gods of Indra, who protects the directions, should give us gold, silver etc. in this yagya. (3)
 In their wars, they defeat the enemies and win their wealth. They have appeared. The mantra singer purohit should praise them. 
Our kings know work and inaction and are richer. The enemies who gather the army with the desire to defeat such a king of ours, let the enemies of our king fall down and be crushed with their feet. For the purpose of achieving this purpose, I weaken the enemies of my king with non-failed mantras and give victory to my king. (3)
When actions are taken in response to duty, Arjun, and one relinquishes attachment to any reward, it is considered renunciation in the nature of goodness.
 Vishnu is God. He has established his reputation from the highest position on earth. May the gods please protect us from that elevated world. 
Indra comes to our Yagya Mandap when Someras is squeezed. Just as air vibrates the forest, Indra staggers the cloud in the same way. (5)
Oh, Usha! You have opened both the gates of the sky at dawn today, so give us a violent-free and elaborate house as well as wealth containing cows. 
O agni! Protect us from the person with bad intentions who shows us weapons and protect us from sin. 
May the clouds, who like heroes, give a place of abode to the world, are sociable, worthy of praise, worthy of sacrifice, and are always in the interest of human beings, may they be compatible with the extensive charity for us. 
Dev is the master of two-legged humans and four-legged animals. Just as the cowherd is the swami of animals, so the god of death is the swami of all beings. I save you from death. Don't be afraid. (23)
Dulok, space and earth cannot cover Vajradhari Indra with their power. 
O Indra! You have pierced the cloud and opened the way for the water to come out. Thus the barrier is immersed in the clouds. You released the huge cloud and poured out the water and killed the vritar demon. 
 O Indra! O agni! The priests present near our yajna through the path of truth. 
O revered and furious Indra! You are the great one, the one who transcends your wealth, the one who defeats the enemies by power, and the only king of the whole world. You must destroy your enemies and strengthen your devotees in your place. 
I see your infinite form in every direction, with countless arms, stomachs, faces, and eyes. O Lord of the universe, whose form is the universe itself, I do not see in you any beginning, middle, or end.
 O praisers! After preparing Soma, pray for Indra, whom many hosts praise who are the givers of wealth. Those prayers give them happiness in the same way as grass to cows. 
O agni! When you are born, complete the earth and the sky. O agni worthy of yajna! You are superior to the earth and the sky by your importance. Let the seven flames of your part be worshipped, 
The above animals as well as transmissible animals are for shunasir. White colored animals are for the air god. Animals with white aura are for Savita Dev. (19)
O enemy-destroyer Indra! Eliminate the enemies we have in front, behind, in the north and in the south. O mighty Indra! May we be pleased to have special pleasure with you. 
He who imagines the ankles is as if the creation of havi grain. (7)
O agni! While protecting the ears, you enter the water of your mother and become calm. Your calming is not tolerated for long, so be born from our aura-like lumbar even when you are away. 
O earth! The bite of the serpents that dwell in you is the one who thirsts. The scorpions among you sleep in the cave with the sting down in the hemant season. These creatures, i.e. snakes and scorpions, who roam happily in the rainy season, should not come near me. (46)
O aschinikumaro of true nature! Whether you stay away, whether you stay close. You come from your place by a chariot of thousand forms. 
O Ritvij! People have brought agni to my house for the peace of the defect of the pigeon's entry and are moving the cow all over the house. He has offered agni etc. in the form of Havi. Who can defeat our men now? (2)
Indra never backs out of war. It was he who destroyed ninety-nine Vritra rakshasas of Vritra Asura. (1)
The Maruts held the yajna for the first time as angiras who attained siddhi by performing yajna for ten months. They should engage us in the yagna work when the ushas come. Just as Usha removes the black night with her red rays, so the deserts remove darkness from the great, radiant and water-dripping light. 
The knower of this brings food for the guest by offering ghee. (3)
O Jupiter! Remove the noble and wealth-taking person who comes before us and commits violence against us innocents, remove him from the good way and make our path easier for the godly god. 
 O Indra! We behave according to Veda mantras. We don't harm anyone. We don't do anything against dharma 
O Indra! Just as you fill the deep seas with water and make cows stronger with skilled gwale like barley, etc., so also reinforce this host. Just as the cows get to the barley or the drains reach the big pond, so do you get the mon. 
 O Indra! The host was satisfied with the food you gave. The host shakes his head and expresses happiness. Stunning Brahmins read new prayers. Please plough the horses in the chariot to come to the yagna. 
Salutations to the cows and horses born in the school. O Vijayavati and Prajavati! We open your bonds. (13)
 Usha is the daughter of Surya. They are the best women. They spread their light all around. They spread their light when the day is not visible. 
O agni! We raise you as a horse-like, a benefactor like a yajna-doer, a gentleman and a beloved one by the praises that receive the gods like Ritwij indra etc. 
The agnis that defeat all the enemies, the enemies, the enemies, and the nourishing agni of the gods, are rich in many kinds of food grains. 
 O Mon! You are beneficial. You give happiness to our cows. Give happiness to our sons and grandsons 
The process of devyagna has begun. Just as the portions of tarpan water in the pilgrimage go to the gods, so the satiating ones given to us go to the visible and small and big gods. We have found the happiness of the vast heaven and let us be the ones who know the nature of the gods. 
The protectors of the gods, intoxicated, adorned and inspired by the praises are mixed with som water in the same way that the mother cow mixes her calf with her trunk. 
May the gods of earth and sky be my shield. Day and sun be armor for me. Indra and Agni become shields for me. (18)
Idra tells the hosts who praise them how to get a cow and gives them many cows. Indra does not hijack the money of that host. They increase the wealth of that psalmist and host in great quantity and give him a place in heaven, in which there is no sorrow. (2)
O Maruto! All those strange deeds of yours know that you drank milk from the breasts of the earth and killed the one who condemned the psalms. O non-violent Rudraputras! You destroyed the enemies of the sage Trinity. 
The venerable Jupiter, watering the earth with water and scattering the cloud for rain, pulled out the cows snatched by the pangs from the mountain and separated the ground from their hooves in such a way that the sun drops its rays from the sky. 
Through penance, through means of yajna, etc., through arduous deeds and worship, men who go to the virtuous worlds, O man! You go to the worlds of those ascetics. (16)
O Indra admired by many! Dasas, Aryans or demons who want to fight with us. May all those enemies be easily defeated by us by Your grace. Let us kill them in battle by your kindness. 
O bhava! We salute your words and life to the air. We salute your seductive bodies. O Rudra! O Sahasraksha and without death! We greet you. (3)
 O Mon! You are divine, king, beautiful and extraordinary. You are like the sea. 
In many streams, the melody is showered and the heavily drunk somersa, consisting of various grains, at the time when indra enters the body of indra, indra never stops the somrasdata host. In addition, they give a large amount of sobhan money to the host who squeezes the somras. 
The Supreme Lord said: It is lust alone, which is born of contact with the mode of passion, and later transformed into anger. Know this as the sinful, all-devouring enemy in the world.
O agni! Come in front of us and say good things and be happy with us. O agni, lord of the people! You are the giver of money, so give us money. 
O water! The psalm in the house of the serving host narrates your elaborate glory. Rivers flow in three ways in earth, space and dulok as seven each. The fastest flowing of rivers is the Indus. 
The place of desireful and radiant agni is uninvadable and protected by enemies. The sight of agni is serviceable similar to that of the sun. 
All the substances that have been brought and won by injuring enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be left out of the bondage of atharvans. We wrap his glory, Brahman, prana and age and make him fall on his face. (17)
O Agni and Soma! You build the path of virtue. You have created the land of heaven that gives happiness. The people who hold the sun in themselves, bring this ghost to that world through simple ways. (53)
Indra, Varuna, Mitra, Aryama, Rudra and the enemy asuras, whose karma does not end, we call the same Savita Dev by greetings for our welfare. 
 O agni! You wear great and gemstones. You are like the sun and make the hosts lucky. 
Hearing our praise in the war, Indra alone kills many enemies. Indra loves the praises. No god or human can stop the welfare of the praiseor. 
O agni! When you have completely consumed this ghost, then hand it over to the fathers. When his life is gone, then this ghost becomes under the control of gods. (5)
I should be free from contaminated skin diseases. My speech is powerful and sweet. (1)
O Indra and Varuna! You have created all the beings of the people by your power. Friends serve Varun for protection. Indra, with the help of the Maruts, becomes furious and receives shobhan ornaments. 
O great agni! Please us and come to sit on kush near the host who wishes for the gods. 
The bright Som of the host is also getting Indra from all sides. Get Indra growth while drinking this Som. (7)
Great agnis grow in the uninterrupted and vast sky, because the water containing many kinds of grains increases the agni well. The origin of the water sleeps peacefully in the waters of the agni river-like sisters located in the sky. 
We raise the deserts and the lion-like roaring, desire-filled and triumphant Jupiter in space through the praises of the benevolent and admired him in the struggles. 
O god of yajnapatra! Don't give us the kidneys and kidneys that want us to be evil. You are the protector of our body, strength and speech. 
O Vishwakarma! We increase your growth from havi. You are going to remove sorrow. You are the creator of the yajna, unique, fierce and especially respected. We make a special call to you. You have been received in the kalash for Indra Dev and Vishwakarma. This is your native place. You are installed for Vishwakarma. (46)
Soma is full of divine qualities and destroys obstacles. They have been prepared by filtering with a sieve for Indra etc. gods. 
 O agni! With what heart should we worship you? When shall we bow down to you? When do we get our words to you? 
Just as one sits on the strong trunk of a tree, so we resort to the grace of Indra and Pusha. 
O grand friend and Varun! Come to this yagna of mine, consume it and listen to my call. Sitting in the yajna speaks ancient praises. The food surrounded by the Ritvijs is before you. Drink this sweet somras by approaching the administrator. 
In the rich Indra war, the cows and their calves snatched from the enemies should be taken to us by the ears and brought to us in such a way that the child takes the goat for water. 
Establish consensus with Usha Devi Vani and Goddess of Speech with Usha. (5)
O Life God! With your beloved body and life, apana i.e. agni and soma, your two beloved and which is your immortal medicine, give us medicine, the means of nectar of life. (9)
O men! Install head disease in pillows. Purify the feces in lead and black sheep and become pure yourself. (20)
O Indra! You are the best and the one who defeats these enemies. You are the master of the sages, the benefactors of human beings and the ones who defeat the enemies. In the war of heroic destruction and power, you killed the asura named Shushna as an assistant to Tejaswi and the young dogs. 
Dhata etc. meditated and found in the mind the yajnasadhak, the one who performed the abhishek kriya, the main and the means of attaining the devas. The priests received this mantra from Dhata, Tejasvi Savita, Vishnu and Surya. 
Hey Ritvijo! When our yajna begins, do havan in the agni that carries the havan, serve them, receive them and select them to bring your vow to the gods. 
 O Indra! Your grace brings immense prosperity. Please give us money by ploughing horses in your chariot, thinking who to kill and who not. 
O you, as perishable as the wind, as fast as rivers and as an eye-sighted as Ashvinikumaro! Come before us. You, like the hands, inspire us towards better wealth by being a pleasure to our body. 
O friendly host! I praise Indra for protecting you. Indra, who had earlier instructed us and gave us money like cow, we praise the same Indra. (3)
O Indra! The worthy Brahmins of Somras want to praise you. Those of your friends squeeze the mon for you, hold other havi and endure the opposition of the enemies. Who is more famous than you in the world? 
O yajna-friendly Mon! You may destroy all sins by the same power as the king. O radiant Mon! Listen to our beautiful hymns and give us food and protect us with good means. 
O men who want the benefit of clothes, money, etc.! You get welfare property later. Jupiter walk ahead of you while going for profit. O Jupiter! You should establish this man in that best place on earth, where money etc. benefits are received. All its sons, grandsons etc. should be brave and its enemies should stay away from it. (1)
Just as the embodied soul continuously passes from childhood to youth to old age, similarly, at the time of death, the soul passes into another body. The wise are not deluded by this.
O nastyo! Come to drink the sweet somras through the chariot on which you have always brought money and given it to the host, as bright as the sun. 
 O Mon! You are willing to meet the gods. You flow through the holy and uninterrupted sweet stream and flow while making a sound. 
O Indra Dev! May we all become knowledgeable by your grace. May we all become brahmagyanis by your grace. May we all become aware by your grace. Just as the reins of trained horses are held by sitting in the chariot, similarly, with vajra hands, you hold the reins of the horses of our life from Yamraj. (22)
O Indra, who does hundreds of deeds! You stand in a high place to protect us. Other men hate us. We praise you. (3)
May the idol of agni installed by the sage be a sight to behold, happy and benevolent and may the arrival in the yagna be delightful. When we Sumitra people first ignite the agni, the glorious agni is admired by us by getting disgusted. 
Oh my friend! At the time when we desire to hold on to you, at the same time we come to dear wealth. No one can destroy the money that gives you the money. 
Some try to perceive the Supreme Soul within their hearts through meditation, and others try to do so through the cultivation of knowledge, while still others strive to attain that realization by the path of action.
O fire worthy of yajna! You wished for the yajnakars, knowing both the yagyas and the ones who did not. O invading fire! Just as the ritwijs teach the host who desires to perform the yajna, so be worthy of the host's teaching. 
You are the thunderbolt of Idr Dev. Friends and Varun Dev are your weapons. We appoint you (to destroy the enemy). Swaha for you. Swaha for enemies. Swaha for Arjuna. Swaha for the Maruts. We are with you from the mind and senses. (21)
O Ashwinikumar! Protect us in these yagyakarmas. Our semen is debilitating and child-bearing. By giving the desired money to our sons and grandsons, let us do shobhanaratna benefits and get the gods and come to the yagna. 
 O Indra! It is said that there is no need for any means to monitor or protect the yajna at that time, when sages like Kanva make you the protector of the yajna with their praises. 
The supreme state that is attained by means of karm sanyās is also attained by working in devotion. Hence, those who see karm sanyās and karm yog to be identical, truly see things as they are.
The white-footed sheep given in the yajna never weakens like the water of the sea and its milk continues to grow. Like ashwini kumars, this sheep never weakens. (6)
O Indra, who destroys the demon Vritra! Just as you are famous as the destroyer of the vritra rakshasa, you are also famous for your wealth. You provide me with your money. (38)
O Indra! The quickly created and expanded from your anti-enemy deeds is like your mother. Be happy by drinking the disgusting somras and eating delicious hyaavya. 
O oath! Don't kill us. You burn the clan of our enemies like agni. Just as a thunderbolt fallen from the sky destroys the tree, so destroy the enemy who curses us in this land. (2)
O mary! You are a person looking from different angles, looking from the same angle, seeing from a mixed angle from each same angle, seeing from the same type of mixed angle, and holding the same ornaments. You come to this yajna of ours today. This sacrifice made by you is an offering. (84)
This stotao! Praise the very wide and truth-based noble force of the Maruts. The rainy deserts work hard with the idea of protecting everyone on their own to rain water. 
Let us be blessed with the agni of The Universe. They are safe from the front and the master of all. The agni, which originates from two woods, sees the world and meets the sun in the morning. 
Indra should listen to both our words quickly. May Indra be rich and powerful by staying with our yajnakarma and come to drink someras. 
O brave Indra, the protector of wealth and praised by the best words! We praise you. May this praise be endowed with your personality and be true. 
O Indra! You are the swami of asuras. You be advanced in all human beings like the bull's chic. O Indra! All gods are equal to you together. O man desirous of excellence! By the grace of Indra, become the best of all beings. (3)
The lotus with nine gates is surrounded by all three i.e. Rajogun, Tamogun and Satogun. The divine group with the soul in him is known to the brahmagyanis. (43)
O Indra! Give us great glory, food stuffed in many chariots and wealth so that we can donate in thousands. 
O Jupiter! The demons who have condemned you even after seeing your might in wars, provoke those demons with a very strong and angry sword, reveal your ancient praiseworthy strength and destroy the blasphemers. 
The soul entering the body of the man attains a place in heaven or hell after death by completing the deeds of virtue and sin through the senses. After the death of the previous gross body, that soul leaves the body and goes in three ways according to many rules. One is that sin goes to hell by karma, goes to heaven by virtuous deeds and experiences happiness and sorrows here by both virtue and sin. (33)
O Indra! Come to this yajna and be happy with all the food items in the form of somras. After that, become the most powerful and conquer the enemies. 
O agni! You have brought out from the sky seven great rivers of adornment and shed them on the earth. The Angiragotrian sages who knew the yajna had known you the path of the cows stolen by the asura named Bal. It was by your grace that Sarma had found godliness from the angiras. Humans are protected from the same god. 
O Indra! Your chariot runs crossing all beings. Horses with green color or hari name associated with your chariot shine in the sky. (10)
Therefore, with the sword of knowledge, cut asunder the doubts that have arisen in your heart. O scion of Bharat, establish yourself in karm yog. Arise, stand up, and take action!
O Savita Dev! You first produce som, the instrument of immortality for the deities worthy of yajna. After this, the givers reveal the host and give life to men in the order of the Father, the Son and the Grandson. 
 O hosts! You remember the prayers for Indra, sing those prayers. In the first yajnas, we sang saam in great verses. This produces wisdom in the hosts and they acquire wisdom. 
O stones! May Savita Dev engage you in squeezing the somras with her inspirational deeds. You squeeze the somras by being appointed in all places. 
O agni! You are able to travel everywhere. Protect us in the land near and away from the papacy who do us evil. 
Usha Devis is endowed with horses and cows and lives in all the times. They try to destroy darkness with the rays of the sun. They come and go wearing the name kalyankar because they are friendly to everyone. 
O agni! Who roam around as monster spouses seeing where what is going on. You burn them. O unbeatable and wise agni! I admire you with beautiful praises. You wake up. 
"O wife of Vrisakapi! You are dhanwali, shobhanputrayukta and shobhan daughter-in-law. Let your bull be eaten by Indra and eat your pleasantly beloved Havi. Indra is the best." 
The same man is the yajna-sampan, who is protected by the deserts, the aryans and the friends without hatred. 
The devas go to the delightful and refreshing Mon. Just as the mighty horse goes into battle, so the many-streamed, extremely powerful and dripping Som goes to Dronakalash to intoxicate Indra. 
O wretched radiant Mon! Bring us many kinds of food and give us thousands of kinds of food. 
Whose terrible charge staggers man, we completely remove that fever from you in autumn. (6)
May the gem on which God, man and father always live, place me in the best place. (32)
O Indra! You are born of a protector from suffering and a beautiful fast. O kampoor Indra! You must destroy those who are hostile to us and make the world wide for the gods. 
O father! The agni that gives the fruit that is not destroyed is sitting in our hearts. They should not be haters of all of us. Let us also not hate them. (33)
The agni that sanctifies all is worshipped in its place. The agni, admired by the poets, is as revered and pleasant as a guest to us. The famous force of agni is one with infinite flames, the one who is going to defeat the workman and everyone else. 
There is a agni called Richa. There is a agni called Yaju. There is a agni called Sama. You are the best of the five agnis on this earth. Please keep all of us alive for a long time. (67)
 Soma holds arms in his hands and is like heroes. He is a cow protector, a strongman of heroes and Indra, an inspiration of the host and a divine. Someras is mixed in cow milk. 
May the great and beautiful songs grace us through the rain. The juice of water should be mixed with the seeds of wheat, barley, etc. sown in the earth. Worship the earth with streams of rain water. Different types of crops like barley, wheat, etc. should be produced separately from the land irrigated by rain. (2)
The sage Bharadwaja has praised Indra, the lord of the host of the holy riches, when he goes to Somras Nichud, in such a way that Indra becomes the giver of inspiration to the praiseor and the giver of sun-loving wealth. 
As ignorant people perform their duties with attachment to the results, O scion of Bharat, so should the wise act without attachment, for the sake of leading people on the right path.
O Ashwinikumaro! The way a well-taught horse moves according to the will of the rider and lives under him. O Kamini! In the same way, your mind should aim at me and be under me. (1)
Such self-realized souls have nothing to gain or lose either in discharging or renouncing their duties. Nor do they need to depend on other living beings to fulfill their self-interest.
O vampires! If you are the cause of leprosy, madness, collectage, etc. from the body of the parents or you have been sent here by my enemies, if you have come to light from near the thief etc., then you all run away from here. (5)
The workmen and the best agni are filled with true form and adherent milk. Those agnis that give food go all over the place even if they stay in one place. Water-yearrs milk water from the sun clouds. 
We praise the lord of the velocity, the lord of charity, the knower of everything, and the most admired Indra and agni by the slutists, so that they may carry our chariots forward in battle. 
Those who are similarly without ill-sense and yajna, let them remain downwards. The powerful horses of those who do not perform the yajna join the chariot, they go to hell. Those who give a greeting to the gods before they die go to heaven. In heaven there are more beautiful things that live in large quantities. 
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Come your chariot, the most capable and famous to carry. Bum quickly listen to his praises to give property to those who praise him. 
Salutations to the east direction of the school. May this sacrifice be auspicious for these great gods worthy of Swaha. (25)
O subduer of enemies, sacrifice performed in knowledge is superior to any mechanical material sacrifice. After all, O Parth, all sacrifices of work culminate in knowledge.
We pray for the glory of agni and the oz of the maruts through many praise mantras. Horses with bundkis, with full wealth and patience, go to the yagna targeting Havi. 
O Savita Dev! You are the principal producer and father of yajna. Please give luck to yajnapati. You are the divine Gandharva and the holy thoughts. Please make our thoughts and speeches pure. You are a speech husband. You also give us a sweet escape. (1)
With the desire of the son, the kankan that the god Aditi wore, the same Kankan Tvashta Dev should tie it in the hand of this wife of mine, so that she can give birth to a son. (3)
Just as Samvatsar goes to the sun, so, being cleansed, Som goes to Indra and completes both Dyava-Prithvi with his glory. Mon destroys the darknesses with his swiftness. The beloved Som, whom the most beloved streams protect, should give us money in such a way that the servant gets a salary. 
O Shobhan Armaments Mon! Give us the wealth that grows on the earth and do us well. 
O agni! The despised and revolutionary gods living in the houses of men have asked you to become the bright. O yajnaswamy! You look at these spectacular and surprising gods with their dynamic brightnesses. 
O brothers! The mind of yours which has gone away from us and the mind which is related to this subject, I suit that mind of yours. May your mind come towards me think according to me. (4)
We see the sun, the lover of the weak ushas, moving forever, never standing. Surya, who wears wide radiance, is dear to friend and Varuna. 
The soldiers who protect the chariot are able to destroy the delicious food of the enemy and give food to their warriors and take shelter in the calamity. These soldiers are powerful, serious, with strange forces, with arrow-like power, non-violent, heroic, huge and defeating enemy groups. 
 Agni is always illuminated. When the hosts live together with love, they protect their splendor. 
O woman! You climb this antelope and sit near the agni god. These gods are capable of killing all the demons. Give birth to your first child in this house. He will be called your eldest son. (24)
O aschinikumaro! Hosts who wish to adapt you to themselves through praises speak verses while reciting to you. O lords of all wealth! They get all the possessions and food from your compassion. Oh, hey, the disciples! Honey drips from the names of your golden chariot. You put the sweet ness on the same chariot. 
Praising the gods and pleading for money, the praise-like vanis go in front of the agni, the master of human beings, adorning them with beautiful appearances, having good speed, in good speed, in the face of the evil spirit and the lord of human beings. 
O sin god! You should remove from us the rope traps with very strong bonds, not obstructing us. These traps are pathological. O patient! Yamraj gives you for me. Salutations to that Yama, the god of death. (3)
 O hosts! The sun is constantly moving. They may not be visible in the lunar system but are present. Thus they live in the house of the moon. This means that the sun's rays are illuminated not only during the day but also at night. 
O darbh! Make me the holder dear to Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Shudras and superiors. Dear to the man who discovers sins of those whom I want to make my beloved between the Anulom and the Antilom race. (8)
O you are pure, Mon! You take over this earth, the people, and all beings by your own force, just as a bull becomes the possessor of a herd of cows. 
These waters are meaningful. Please give us meaning. These waters are national. Please give us the nation. For them. These waters are energizing. Please give us energy. These waters are national. Please give us the nation. These waters are powerful. Give us strength. These waters are national. Give us the nation. For them. These waters are powerful. Give us strength. For them. These waters are the sustainers of all water and are capable of keeping them under their control. Give us the nation. For them. These waters keep all the water in the womb. Are able to keep in their rule. Give us the nation. For them. (3)
The bones that go towards both ribs and strengthen the back part, do not leave your body while remaining diseaseless. (15)
The most famous and great mother of the maruts who are the sons of the desert working rudra and the space that is able to be filled with hold, conceives for the adornment of the earthly human beings. 
It was this Somras that adorned the sun, the adornment of the Ushas, and established the light in the middle of the sun circle. In all the three sawans, in three ways, the present same Somras had found the elixir hidden among the three lokas. 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are situated in directions and sharp in mind. I display might in directions and remove it from directions. Let the one who hates us or whom we hate be destroyed. Give up life. (28)
O Indra! Just as human beings mix water in water while wishing for water, similarly people who wish for you mix you with waters in the form of Soma. (1)
O rivers! Three people with three qualities are the abodes of the gods. The makers of the three lokas are the kings of the Sun Yajnas. Ila, Saraswati and Bharati, who walk in the watery and sky, may the goddesses meet each other in the three saavans of the yajna. 
Just as a bull thunders after seeing cows, in the same way, listening to praises, soma words, soma lives in dyulok in the form of sunkirans, is born in dyulok and has a grace motion, sees the earth and gives knowledge to the subjects through yajna. 
With ghee and honey, you are as strong as the earth. You are seated on me to give great good fortune, tearing off enemies and despising them. (14)
O Indra! You are as gracious as a king with your wives. O scholar and poet Indra! Make the hymns rich in all manner with wealth, cows and ashes like gold etc. We are your desire. You do our rites for the sake of wealth. 
Just as the swan enters the human group, so this mon enters into the intellect of all the hymns. Just as the horse is bathed, so the mons are irrigated with water. 
I call Indra, the protector and wishful of enemies. I call Shobhan Call and Brave Indra. I call Indra, who is omnipresent and called by many. Dhanswami Indra give me welfare. 
 O Indra! You are the master of Mon. Your horses are alluring. Please join this yajna through those horses. 
He behaved according to the subjects. (1)
 O Mon! Please give us the glory of evil kings named Dhruva and Purushanti. Your currents flow at a velocity. 
The gods, i.e., agni and the sun, first of all, speak the praises of shobhan, and the yajnakars do the work of completing the yajna for man. Both of them engage the priests in yajna karma. They are efficient and produce ancient light in the east direction. 
O Indra called by many! Neither the deep ocean can stop you, nor the current mountain clusters around it! On the prayer of the gods, you also resolved the firm vadvagni. 
Money must be given to the rich for the begging person. He gets the long path of dharmarupi. Just as the wheel of the chariot goes up and down, so does money from one person to another. 
 O Indra! O wind! You are strong and capable. You plough the appointed horse in the chariot and come for sompan. 
The som soon covers the dyava-prithvi with grains. Mon is the holder of all drugs. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! We don't know anyone as important or rich as you. We don't even have the same knowledge of wealth as you. O Indra! No one shows the same power as you. 
O Indra! It is true that you are the giver of wealth and the rainer of fruits. You don't shy away from removing anyone. You eat this charu of ours and increase our happiness. (12)
O Maruto, the abode- giver! Know well all that yajnas were performed in ancient times or are being performed in the present tense, whatever prayers or praises are offered. The chariot of the maruts going towards the water runs behind the back. 
O Som, destroyer of the non-givers, sees from everywhere! You sit in the place for performing yajna. 
O Soma, you receive your ing and intoxicating juices as indradi dev and marut. 
Salutations to the occupant of the well. Salutations to the occupant of the pit. Salutations to those living in light and sunlight. Salutations to those who live in the clouds. Salutations to those living in electricity. Salutations to those who live in rain and those who live in rain. (38)
O agni! At the time when you eat wooden grain with flammatic teeth, your speed quickly spreads to the earth. Your flame is liberated like an army. O glorious agni! You enter the woods from your flames like barley etc. 
O agni that holds all! We go to you praising you with a variety of hymns and greetings. Please us by giving you money. O angiraputra agni! Be well-lit and pleased by the host's glory. 
O Indra! The demon who calls me a true-minded man and a liar, the false demon will be destroyed in such a way that the water in the fist ceases. 
The Angiragotrian sages praised Jupiter from the very beginning by holding the beautiful brightness of the yagna while making a truthful speech and meditating on the welfare. He is the son of the bright and wise agni and his mind is simple. 
O Swami Indra! Don't you subdue us cynically. Do not subject us to enemies who speak harsh words and do not donate. (5)
Indra said, "Brother, Agastya! Why are you insulting us by being a friend? We know what's on your mind. You don't want to give us a hug." 
Pururva said, "O wife of sorrow! Stay close to me for a moment with a loving heart. Let's make a fuss today soon. Today, if our words are left unsaid, the days to come will not be pleasant." 
The waters in which the sea is large purify everyone, are always moving and go through the middle of space. The water gods who were freed when they stayed, may the water gods protect us in this place. 
The host is not the master of this deity form bull. The one who gives yajna, charity and accepts donation is also not the master of it. It is going to conquer the world and feed the world. The whole world is its work. This Taurus with four steps tells us the form of the bright sun. (5)
O Lord.o! Let us be comprehensive and rich with your help. Let us defeat the enemies with your power. Protect us in war. We will overcome the enemies by finding Indra. 
Which God holds man's beloved and unpleasant dreams, related senses, joy and sorrow? (9)
Hey friend and Varun! Because of your importance, the best place in the vast earth where you take cows, they return to the safe goshala by kidnapping thieves, etc., and give plenty of milk. Just as those caught by thieves shout, so do they sing at the sun in the sky in the evening. 
If the somras, who gives joy and inspires the editing of the work, is ready, then give it to the one who is happy and completes the whole work. 
O Ribhu, Vibhu, Vaj and Indra! You people come to this yagna to give us gems. At this time, the goddess of speech has possessed the happiness of Sompan for you. May you get the happiness arising from drinking somras. 
It is only for the sake of agni that these contemplations, hymns and vedamantras are done. Shobhan praises that aspire for wealth for us come out of the rich voice and come from the agni. As these praises grow, Agne is satisfied and increases wealth. 
We put water containing honey and dripping ghee separately in the hands of Brahmins. The desire with which we wash the hands of Brahmins, our wish should be fulfilled and we become the masters of wealth. (27)
O burn! You place the part of Indra, the semen of water and the divine glory in us. For the welfare of the people, wear the glory of Prajapati in us. (7)
O revolutionary Indra! We know you to defeat enemies in wars and win money, so we ask you for money. 
O Mon! You have been absorbed in the urn. You are a pleasant, well-respected, vast and duty-loving. We salute you. For all the gods you are established. You are the original place of gods. (8)
O darbhamani! Churn my enemies and those who gathered the army against me. Give a warmth to all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (5)
O Marutas! Your horses through their power travel all over the world. They walk fast without the charioteer. Your speed is so strange that all beings and lofts tremble when you walk, just as one trembles when he sees a sword raised in battle. 
 O Mon! You are omniscient. You make the world conscious. You are intelligently refined. Please listen to our praises. 
O Marudagano! These hymns are dedicated to you. Please make you happy these banimayi praises. These praises are honorable and best fruitful. You come. Give us the desired happiness, education, food and age. (48)
 O Indra! You have the ability to give herds of hundreds of thousands of cows and destroy enemy cities. The host is singing saam mantra to protect themselves. Indra is endowed with the words of Brahmins. We invite them. 
The hosts worship Indra by taking the giving of havan with adhwaryu. They think that Indra will soon come to Havya like a thirsty antelope. O mighty Indra! Praising the gods who wish for the psalms, the host and his wife perform the yajna well. 
This stream of somras goes from a high place to the vessel. It was this stream that had obtained the cows hidden by the panies. O Indra! This somdhara, which has the same words as electricity, falls for you only. 
Our Father, who gave birth to the fathers, that is, our Baba was rich and used to drink som in order. While enjoying with those fathers, pray for Yama and eat the charu, purodash etc. given by us to those fathers. (46)
These sun and moon move from east to west, playing like a baby. One of these i.e. the sun creates seasons while looking at the worlds and appears in a new form. (23)
O world-keeper Indra! Make us the owners of horses and indestructible. If you stay near us, we will become great, consuming many grains and vast riches. O Indra! Give us the money with the children. 
Dyava-Prithvivi is not the same as a part of me. I've been to sompan several times. 
O herbs named Ajshringi! By making you a means, we destroy the apsaras and Gandharvas who create nuisance. Drive the demons away from here and destroy all the demons with your smell. (2)
O children! I praise Indra through Vishwamitra, earth and sky. This hymn should protect the Bharat's descendants. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Your arms are wide and eager to grasp Havee . You are the Preserver of good deeds. Both of you take the grain of the yajna. 
Like women, let's come to the great Goswami to get food, as spectacular, delightful, devout of the human being, the ancient and modern Mon. 
Those who call the gods and the masters of the yajna are located in the house of the host to perform the yajna for the sake of the agni earth and sky. The son of force and the agni, including the yajna, extend their rays like the sun even when they are far away. 
The man who knows the agni and the lamps set by a man of the Kshatriya jati desirous of victory does not set foot in a place that causes death, where elephants, tigers, etc. roam. (3)
O Rudra with happy herbs, with blue fragments i.e. crowns of peacock feathers and cutting the misdeeds of his worshippers! Make the jadi called Guarpatha consumed by me despise my opposing speakers. O guar patha! Defeat the opponents who ask me the counter-question and dry the mouths of the speakers opposing me so that they cannot speak. (6)
O Savita Dev! You are all gods of gods. You remove our shortcomings. Please bring whatever you have for us. (3)
O agni! Protect the yajna from violence by destroying all the demons well. Bring Indra, the lord of the entire Somras, to this yagna with his horses called Hari, for we will be the guest of The Shobhan Fruit donor Indra. 
I am sitting with salutations to earth, sky, space and death. I should not go to the upper world, that is, do not attain death. God, the presiding deity of dyava, earth etc., should not violence me. (1)
Hiranyagarbha was born in the beginning of creation and became the swami of all beings as soon as he was born. He took this earth and sky. We worship those Prajapatis by Havi. (7)
O host of yagna! You are seen to have a lot of intimacy with the fearless Indra. You are both constantly happy and equally glorious. 
The deserts masquerade the soma, born and desired by all, located like the infant, and the fruit-bearers adorn the som with their seven ganas. The meritorious and the poets, who are called poets by the poet, go to dashapavitra while doing the words and listening to the praises. 
This horse skilled in war is being taken to the place of bondage contemplating the gods with the mind. The horse's friend, the goat, is walking ahead of him. Speaking the mantra, Ritwij walks back and forth. 
O Indra! Let's get new hymns related to the protectors and you. May we, the children of Vishwamitra, get various kinds of property while praising you for your protection. 
We will put the sobriquet-squeezed somras with a desireful mind to use it as ancestral wealth. O King Mon! Increase our lifespan in this way, just as the sun increases the days. 
O the asuras, the best of the destroyers, the fierce, the abode-giver and the leader Indra! Come listen to all the hymns of Sage Vishwamana. 
Who knows the place of the maruts, where those who tremble with fear to the enemies are pleased with the deserts born and sinless for the sake of the yajna? 
Just as this evil woman remembers me, I never remember this woman. O God! Send Cupid towards him, so that he may remember me and experience sorrow because of my remembrance. (3)
Who owns many arrows? (1)
You are the husband (master) of the mind. You sanctify us. You are the master of speech. You make us holy. May Savita Dev, dev, without defects, bless us. Make us holy with the sun's rays. O Holy Lord! We are your sons. Let us become pure and fulfill our wishes, so that we can be able to perform more sacrifices. (4)
I should get rid of the sin caused by the nightmare and also stay away from the defect of the dream. I speak the mantra that removes nightmares. May those who belong to nightmares away from me.   (1)
O agni! Those who donate the best cows and powerful food to the wise stoetas, take them and us to a better place. We will be composed of the best heroes and will speak many mantras in the yajna. 
Saraswati Devi and Ashwinikumar laid the seat of Kush for Indra Dev in yagyasadan. He made Indra Dev wear manu (anger) and splendor. (57)
Oh, this desireful Indra! Don't give us harmful monsters. Let us not be sad to find the friendship of your wealthy. Your ropes extend to the enemies. You kill those who do not squeeze the mon and finish those who do not give the evil. 
I praise the littlest of the gods who enjoy havi, the friend and unbeatable agni by discipline. Just as the calves live by drinking the cow's trunk, so all the gods, offerings and praises serve in the yagnakarma of agni. 
 For thirty clocks 
The moving and moving mons go towards space and water bodies without any reason. 
These pegs i.e. six seasons hold heaven and are making the mantras of Samaveda a thread to weave clothes. (44)
The food hosts want rudra's friendship while doing karma by staying in their yajna. Rudra gives food to the leaders by listening to the praise. I salute The Lord. 
O Indra Dev! Please protect us like you sakha. Please give you money. Let us protect hundreds of your defence tools. (6)
This man! I remove your anger about the woman with a tvashta mantra. O husband of this! I also calm your anger. (3)
The northwest attains the north-west. Sat leads to dronakalsh. Aquarius gets the moon. Sthalis are obtained from the stables. (27)
O Mani! You know the magic tones done by our enemies, Tejaswini and protect our bodies. Catch an enemy more powerful than us and leave an enemy with the same power as us and move forward. (4)
O serpent named Arbudi! May Shachi's husband Indra kill those who are superior among our enemies who have been driven away from the battlefield by you. They should not spare any of our enemies. (20)
O Indra Dev! You are rich and powerful. We offer sacrifices to you. You are Adityavan (Tejomay). Sacrifice is dedicated to you. O Indra Dev! You are going to end pride. Sacrifice is dedicated to you. Savita Dev is satyavan. They are rich and strong. Sacrifice is dedicated to them. Sacrifice is dedicated to Jupiter, beneficial to all the gods. (8)
 O Mon! You give satiation to Indra. You are holy. Please destroy all enemies by shouting. 
Our praises are received by Indra, the beteloper of the great Someras and the swami of the force, in the same way as the cow licks its calf. (5)
Cupid destroyed my enemies and created great people for my growth. Let the creatures of all four directions greet me and give six earths for me. (11)
May I be the master of two-legged men and four-legged animals wishing for confirmation. The owner of the animal etc. Udumbram Mani should give me gold etc. money. (6)
O Indra! With your help, let us kill those enemies who consider themselves to be very powerful. You be our protector and keeper. We get food, strength and long-life. 
O the tremblers and the sacrificial marutos! Your words of truth and inspiration for money give the hosts the desired wealth, the same voice should be our guide. 
 O agni! You are so dear and our guest. You are dear and well-known as our friends. You are a marriage. We praise you. 
O Parjanya! My greetings to Vidyut. Greeting me to the thunderbolt thunderbolt. You throw away the terrorists. (1)
Please be kind to our friendly agni, water, plants, medicines, medicines digested with pain from this yajna. This yajna will increase the easily digestible medicines, village animals, forest animals, finances, property, past and future. May yajna give us all the fruits. (14)
In this way, devotees take hymns and yajna and go to the agni and install them. Fire give us fast-moving horses with the best son and grandson. O agni! Bring food for those who praise you. 
You are situated in purity. You are purified for Vishnu. You are born from Savita Dev. Water goes into the sky after filtering it with the rays of the holy sun. Please sanctify you to the sun. Please sanctify Bani. You are an ascetic provider. You can provide rajochit eligibility to Som. Swaha for you. (6)
Indra is famous in this yagna today. Today we praise Indra, who is vajradhari and worthy of praise. Indra is going to give the Psalms extraordinary glory like a friend. 
 O Indra! You are going to have hundreds of sacrifices. Please fulfill the wishes of the worshippers. Just as the chariot gets speed from its wheels, so by the grace of you, the worshipers get money. 
When the word of the desireist stota rites it and the voice in the mouth of the yogicshma-related rustic praises the king, then the sings come to it, worthy of being able to choose, enough for the drunkenness of the gods, the guardian of all and wishing for the Som in the kalash. 
The demons became powerless as soon as I arrived. Hey Varun! You also wish me. Oh, King! You separate the falsehood from the truth, and be the lords of my nation. 
Food grows in front of us. It grows in the middle of our house. Food increases the gods. He is what makes us all heroic. By your grace, let us be prosperous and optimistic. (34)
O sage Vishwamana, son of man! You worship the agni produced in the house of the great and the host by the psalms just like the sage named Grossyup. 
Just as the king fulfills the desire of men, so come Indra, who fulfills the will of the stoetas. Indra, who is shown valour in both the realms and undefeated by the enemy forces, rises before us for acts of bravery. Indra, who has a wide body and qualities, is well known to the host. 
I call indra and agni, the enemy-breaker, the conqueror, the victorious, the undefeated and the giver of large quantities of food. 
O radiant Mon! Send happiness to our cows, our children, to our and to our herbs. 
O uniquely enlightened agni! You engage a virtuous man in such a way that he can be saved. When the wide war starts all around, by your grace, a small number of and heroic people kill great heroes. 
The most intelligent Indra is possessed by which people's power? The great Indra accomplishes great things with his wisdom. They destroy the great sins of the hosts as well as give riches to the praises. 
O furious Indra and Varuna! You run your armaments called bright and bright weapons on enemies. Use your enemy's rebellious force against the enemy who cannot be oppressed by us, does not give alms and is going to commit violence. 
Hota performed a yagna for Indra Dev. Parents are with Indra Dev Ida, Saraswati and Bharati Devi. These goddesses are aged, golden, vast and glorious. We worship for Indra Dev from viraj verses. We worship Indra Dev with sense power. We hold milch cows for them. Let us hosts offer sacrifices for them. May the host please perform yajna for them. (31)
O deserters! May the fast-moving and moving horses bring you to our yagna. You who walk quickly also take money in your hands and come to give it to us. You sit on the cushions on the altar and drink the sweet somras and get the satisfaction. 
In the yajna, the woman sits with the man as a companion. In this way, she is going to create the yajna. He deserves the praise of veer wife Indrani, because Indra is superior. (10)
O Shur Indra! Perform your duties together with our hostile brave men. You have been arrogant for many days and destroy our enemies and give us their wealth. 
Indra, who showers, comes with joy. Who knows how to praise host Indra? 
We ask for money from indra, the famous, the powerful, the unheated and the lord of all. 
O praiseworthy agni! You come every day before the dawn and illuminate the night and day that you meet. You sit in seven places for the sake of the yajna, generating the sun from your body. 
Let the agni that carries the utmost yajnapatra and the havya accept our greetings and praises. 
Fight for the sake of duty, treating alike happiness and distress, loss and gain, victory and defeat. Fulfilling your responsibility in this way, you will never incur sin.
 O Indra! Our prayers are admired among the sages who please and satisfy you. Be satisfied with their effect, get an increase. 
 O Mon! You are going to watch everyone's deeds carefully. You are the motivator of leading praises. The waters of space are received by you. 
Yellow pundu disease, which is difficult to treat like haldi, separates the organs and causes many types of wounds. It removes all diseases from the organs of the anjan and destroys them. (2)
The one who says that our person should satisfy you, waters his own souls. (5)
O yajnaagni! The host's wives are capable of leading. O host! Please choose those women's loams wisely and separate them. Please calm you down from the list of wives and directions of the devas. (36)
Those with limited understanding, get attracted to the flowery words of the Vedas, which advocate ostentatious rituals for elevation to the celestial abodes, and presume no higher principle is described in them. They glorify only those portions of the Vedas that please their senses, and perform pompous ritualistic ceremonies for attaining high birth, opulence, sensual enjoyment, and elevation to the heavenly planets.
O Mon of yellow! Singing gives you unstainable milk-curd. You grow up and sit on a high place. 
From the beginning of the great yajna, all the works are able to accomplish the work, they produce fire from the rutvikzbal and the moving wind to spread the fire hidden in the altar-like cave inspires from time immemorial. 
 O Mon! You are worthy of worship. Hosts try to stabilize you. Those who are devoid of malice and who praise you, they get you as a nutritious diet. 
You are the masters of ganas. We invoke you Ganapati. You are dear among the loved ones. We call upon you beloved. You are dear among the funds. We call on Nidhipati. You have built the world. You are ours. You are the womb of the world. Let us know your pregnancy ability. (19)
O dundubi! You are made from vegetation and tone high. You behave like powerful people and honor the enemies with a loud voice. (1)
O deserters and vasuo! Protect us from the one who commits violence, who hates us like a wolf. O rudraputras! Drive away from creation by grieving our enemy and throw away all his weapons. 
This is the hymn! Praise the beloved, the guest and the agni that regulates the chariots. 
The kapipus who bring upbarhan are the peripheries of the yajna. (10)
O Indra! You are raining water in the region above the sun that absorbs air and absorbs water and cooks fruits. O Indra with determination and an anti-hostile heart! Today you have shown valour, it is clear that there is no one better than you. 
The deathless saranu was hidden among humans and given to the sun by making another woman like saranu. Sarnew was hidden as a mare at that time. She conceived ashwarinikumaras and gave birth to two children as twins. 
While I was looking for my brothers, the Samarth Maruts told me that the earth was their mother. He described Rudra, the lord of the grain, as his father. 
Worthy of worship and salutations, due to the destruction of darkness, the agni is ignited by all the visible and working years. 
O Indra! You killed the asuras named Chumuri and Dhuni in a deep sleep and protected the sage named Dabhiti. The gatekeeper of Dabhiti also received the gold of those two asuras. Indra did this work in the name of Somras. 
In a state where the Brahmin's wife and cow are obstructed, the wife who does the welfare of the kind does not sleep on the bed. (12)
Arjun said: Having heard the supremely confidential spiritual knowledge, which you have revealed out of compassion to me, my illusion is now dispelled.
The soul that is located in that nine-door Hiranyamaya kosh, those who expand the yajna there are considered to be brahmagyanis. (32)
 O Mon! You are holy. You are close to the gods. Please be faster researched. Please be substituted for Indra. 
Three thousand three hundred and forty-nine gods worshiped agni, irrigated with arse and spread kush for them. After this, those gods made the agni happen and sat down. 
May the som, who gives a son with a beautiful semen to the best of the givers of food and the best of the psalmists, pervade the whole world with his lamps. 
 O Mon! You are endowed with sacred and millennial qualities. You hold money for us. Please make us the officials of your building. 
This Indra, you are the guardian of all of you, those who live in Dronakalash, the people and fill your stomach with the forceful karta somras. You give me the power and make me yours. You are able to raise us wise. 
Which God filled man's arms with power and who created semen in him? Who is the god who creates a man's shoulders? Who installed it on the fuselage? (5)
The three kushas of agni are unbonded and unshackled. There is also a state of water in the agni. 
O unbeatable and the lord of the waters, Aschinikumaro! Please be kind to the sage Who praises you in this yajna. O you who know honey! You hear our call. 
O Indra! Let The Intoxicating Mon please you. You give the Psalms a powerful and rich son. O Shur Indra! You are the only one of the gods who have mercy on human beings. You be pleased in this yajna. 
King Varuna has extended the path from the rise of the sun to the setting. He has made way for the sun to walk without feet in the sky. Let them destroy the enemy who pierces my heart. 
Hey Mon! Give us grain, ooz, horse and cow, expand the light for us and satisfy the gods. O you are pure, Mon! Monsters are alien to you. You destroy all the enemies. 
 O Ashwinikumaro! You're light. Who lives on this earth can illuminate you. The host who gets tired of doing soma with stones for you, he is going to enjoy as per the wish of the king. 
O agni! You give food to the sons of hosts and destroy the enemies by the weapons. O the best agni in leaders! You protect us in the battle. 
The one who knows this is the beloved abode of Virat and all the gods. (23)
O God of Agni! May this arani or host be the cause of your creation. From which you are born and you are illuminated, enter into it knowing the cause of your origin. After this, you increase our wealth. (1)
O Indra! You are the king of all the worlds and gods. You protect the humans. O enemy destroyer! you guard us. You are the guardian of the gentlemen, the lord of wealth and our savior. You are the bearer of the fruits of truth, the one who covers everyone with your brilliance and the giver of power to the praisers. 
O Rudra, father of the maruts! May we have the happiness you have given us. Don't separate us from the sight of the sun. May our mighty sons defeat the enemies in battle. Hey Rudra! We become many of the sons and grandsons etc. 
O agni! Just as Manu had brightened your rays, so I, the sage Sumitra, also gives them glow. Your rays are new. Burn richly, accept our praises, kill the enemy and give us food. 
Varun goes with the night. (3)
Protect me through the sense eye that sees the form of the sun. This havan is well done. (3)
Both Varuna and Manu give us well-brought and non-dividing food. May our enemies flee in fear and defeat in their minds. 
O Brahmachari! You should live forever with the life of the gods who give long life than the life of men with long life and do not attain death. I separate you from the sins and tuberculosis, the cause of diseases, and sufferings, and fill you with eternal life. (8)
Even at a distance, we praise the agni that listens to our praises and is quickly present in the yagna. 
O salt! If you are a Taurus, that is, with the power of a bull, then produce children from this cow, otherwise you will be considered ineffective. (1)
No one should stop the house-givers, the guests, the devotees of many people, the adorners of the gods, and the adornment-sacrificial agni from coming to us. 
Those who are installed in the herbs by the moonkirans for the sake of the happiness of the gods, those who are willing to approach the gods, the mons who receive wealth from the enemies, along with all the gods, please Indra and lie with the radiant stream. 
O Pour, praised by Ashwinikumaro! You send the raining cloud to the sage Pour. Just as the knight kills the thundering lion, so do you rain the cloud near the paur busy in the yagna work. 
Hey friend and Varun! I praise you with hymns that regulate food. So you sing countless to my garden. You, sit on the famous and beautiful chariot and come with pleasure in my chamber and make my confirmation permanent. 
O God of Water! Give anger to those who hate us and those we hate with you who have the power to anger others. (1)
Those gods raise the sun in front of everyone with their strength. They have filled the earth with havis. We, servants of the gods, should get food through them and attain the age of 100 years while staying in harmony with the heroes. (6)
O vampires living at the crematorium! Get out of here, get out of here. The fathers have built this place for this dead host of us. Yama has given this place with days, waters and nights to this dying person. 
Desire and aversion, happiness and misery, the body, consciousness, and the will—all these comprise the field and its modifications.
The two Ashwinikumars, driven by horses, live with Surya, a woman similar to the migrant men. 
Sit with the awfulness and praise the agni that listens to this call of ours. 
Swaha to the earth. Swaha for space. Swaha to heaven. Swaha to the sun. Swaha for the moon. Swaha for nakshatras. Swaha for waters. Swaha for medicines. Swaha for banaspatis. Swaha for grazing. Swaha for those who crawl and report. (29)
The demon who nourishes himself with the flesh of men and is strengthened by the flesh of horses and goats etc., O Agni God! The monster who steals cow's milk. Cut off the ends of all of them with your flame. (15)
O stones! As soon as usha comes with food, I prepare you well. You pleased Indra, Marut and Dyava-Prithvivi by somras. May this God go to each of us's house and receive service and complete the house with money. 
O men! About whom people ask where he is? About which people say that he is not. The one who destroys the enemy's property is Indra. Have faith in them. 
The agni protected the famous sage Zaratkarna and came out of the water and burned an enemy named Jaruth. Agni protected the sage Atri lying in the agni pit and made the sage Nrimedha a child. 
I am going to destroy enemies and i am as undefeated and non-violent as Indra. All these enemies are at my feet. 
O God of Agni! You are able to hear our hymns, give you the desired fruit and know it by all. I praise you with mantras, sentences, anuktas and suktas, so that I may be blessed, that the gods who are angry with us, you calm their anger. (4)
O God! No one receives the evil and sin of that man, whom Aryama, friends and Varuna together save from Shru's hand. 
 Indra is a resident of heaven. They help a lot of people. Our father 
Those who are not a source of annoyance to anyone and who in turn are not agitated by anyone, who are equal in pleasure and pain, and free from fear and anxiety, such devotees of mine are very dear to me.
 In the olden times, people created a bright Som like the sun to get the best place. 
The first god born in the form of the sun is located in the form of cause in the sky and in the true form in the earth and he established the earth and sky in indestructible form. By spreading the earth and the sky, the present first god has established the earth and sky. He is born in the form of the sun in the middle of these two and is spreading the sky and the earth with his glory. (4)
The leaders of all the people, the leaders of all the people, who act quickly, the charitable and hostile agni, who perform the yajnakarma through yajnakarma, go between the earth and the sky. 
The water holds the very huge brightness of Varuna and is happy to get food. Varun comes to those waters like his wife. Just as the people go to the king, so the water is frightened and stay with Varuna from the vritra. 
This intoxicating som of the sage Trinity is being purified for his own and Indra's drinking. Green is mixed with mon milk etc. 
Who made seven holes in a man's head i.e. two ears, two nostrils, two eyes and one face? With the glory of these gods, creatures with two legs and four legs go to the place of Yamraj while moving in many places. (6)
O men! You attain the longevity of old age. You are born beautiful and respectful. May tvashta give you full life for a long life. (24)
They perform yajna for agni. Agni is strong, aged, housewife, vaidya, poet and swahayukta. We worship Agni and Indra Dev from the verses. Please accept both gods and sisters. We worship them with sense power. The host should perform yajna for both the gods. (34)
No one can defeat Indra, the best leader and the two-partimbler of armies in battle, adorned with his swiftness in battle, sitting in a horse-drawn chariot called Hari. The best master of the army, he destroys the soul of The Shru by wearing a strong velocity with the maruts who absorb the power of Indra's enemies. 
O agni! Vidhata has created you as the head of all the yagnas, as the head of various forms and the giver. You give us a land cultivated by servants. Oh, it's a agni worth wanting! You give us all the beneficial food containing the hymns of praise and all the beneficial. 
The cow, which is always rearing with ghee, milk, etc., comes to mind, wishing for the calf. He should give milk to the cow Ashwinikumars and increase their good fortune. 
Indra's armament is fierce, hundred-edged and made of iron. With that, he should kill the Gandharvas who do not give havi and eat algae. (8)
O man who harms the Brahmin! The water of the tears of brahmins, the vessels of grace, the same water has been fixed for you by the gods. (13)
O Gandharva with qualities like charity! Be the protector of us in the pole direction i.e. on earth. Barley, wheat, trees, plants, etc. are your arrows. Let them protect us. You call us yours. We greet you and sacrifice. (5)
 O Indra! Let us be convinced by your consent and strong with your strength. Protect us with your desired means. May you make us happy and prosperous. May we have the grace of you. 
 O agni! By addressing you, the priests like Adhwaryu etc. recite stotras. You know everything. You control everything in the same way as the wheel car. 
They became summoned immediately after the birth of Vrithrahanta and the great Indra. Indra was able to be called by friends like The Drunk Mon while doing many human-benefactors. 
O Indra and Vayu! You accept the sacrifice like honey in our yajna. The victorious hosts go to the mountainous regions to obtain Soma. May our Ritvijs be able to perform your Yagyakarma. In this yajna, many cows give a lot of milk for you together and Purodash is cooked. These cattle should neither be deficient nor be thin. 
 Like a bird with good wings, the rays of the sun, which loves yajna, reach Indra. O Indra! You remove the darkness now. Fill your eyes with light. You get us out of those shackles like you are tied to a rope. 
 O Indra! We invite you at the start of every auspicious work. Invite you to all kinds of struggles 
 O Indra! You are loved and enemy to all. No one can beat you. You are as vast as Giri and the swami of heaven. Please come to earth with us to give us all the glory of the world. 
Indra is a man of good intellect, with unconfirmed anger by enemies who are happy with the squeezed soma, rich as day, doing human-beneficial deeds without the help of anyone, enemies and enemies of the shanru group. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Just as the boat lands people across the river, so do you bring us across with sorrows. Gambling, the navel of the wheel, hey and puthi cross us in the same way as they cross the chariot. You like dogs save us from old age like bodyblock and armor. 
O goo! You are anna swaroopa. By your grace, food is edible for us. You are rich in juice. By your grace, succulent things like ghee, milk etc. are edible. You are respected. Please make us respectable. You are wealthy. Please make us rich. You are strong. You make us strong too. May we be strong by your grace. (20)
O Abhri (material related to yajna)! You are the sustainer of the earth. You are powerful. You are brilliant. You are the forerunner. Please bring agni here. Fire is the nurturer. They are powerful and heroes. We install agni at the yagna site. (16)
This land also remains under the control of Swami Varuna, who controls the wicked. The land that is near and far is also under their control. The present ocean in the east and west is in the womb of Varuna. In this way, the whole world is hidden in self-water. (3)
Those who desire Indra and desire wealth, those who plead with Indra in the war-like yagya, those who want food and praise Indra through stotras, go near the host Indra. At that time, Indra is as beautiful as niwasthan and delightful as Lakshmi. 
The animals that harmed the yajna were destroyed. Please climb in the east direction. Please protect you in Gayatri, Rathantar Som and spring season. Please protect you brahma dhan. (10)
 O Marudgano! You come to us. You come to us without harming us. Those who are powerful, those who are going to hurt the enemies, they should also stay with us. They should not stay away from us. 
Hey Mon! Your compliments are great. You have created the best people for hosts who defeat enemies. We beg of you to get the post. 
O Sakha Mon! Let us pay attention to the praises of our friends and come, giving us food to protect us. 
Hey Mon! You may bring us well-being by slipping and filtering into the characters, enter indra's belly with great words, increase our praise and increase our knowledge. 
O Indra and God! Today we call you for your own good, for your friendship and food. 
O man who wants peace! May the peace deeds done by me follow you from all sides. May it save you from witchcraft by other human beings and relatives, similar in knowledge and opulence. May you not die and have much life. Do not give up your body. (26)
O Indra, who destroyed the demon Vritra! Push back the warriors that our enemy has extended forward, so that I can destroy the enemy's army. (7)
O leader Ashwinikumaro! Scholars call you in many places. You come by your carrying ass. 
One who donates shataudana cow by decorating it with gold, he gets those worlds, which are related to the divine and earthly i.e. earth. (6)
O Indra! Just as the hawk carries both his wings, so let the horse named Hari, who is drunk, bear you. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to Duloka. 
O patient man! May the agni, along with the water, be pleasant for you. May Somlata be happy for you with all the herbs. Similarly, I redeem you from decay, leprosy, etc., from the sin god caused by disease, from the sin caused by the anger of the captives, from the treason of the Guru, Dev etc. and from the sins of Varun Dev. I make you sin-free with my mantra. Let both dyava and earth be benefactors to you. (2)
O hosts! We pray to Indra through praises for the completion of your yajna and for the attainment of your desired results. Indra is visible and sorrow-destroying. Indra Som is full of the joy of drinking. Just as the cows go to their calves in the evening and morning, we also go towards Indra praising. (1)
Gayatri verse is related to agni. Trivrit and Rathantar are praiseworthy by sama. Ashtakpal, Panchdesh, Brihatsam Bali Stuti B. Eleven-capaled Havi is for Indra Dev. Jagati verses and seventeen stotras are related to vishvas. The praise with vairupa sama, the havi cultured in twelve skulls, the praise of anushtup verses are for mitravarun and the praise of twenty-one stotras is for mitravaruna. Mitravarun Dev is praiseworthy by vairupa sam. The row is related to Jupiter Dev. Jupiter is praised by God Trinava. Jupiter is praised by Shakvar Sama. Charu is for Jupiter Dev. The hot verse is related to Savita Dev. Savita Dev is praiseworthy of atonement and raivat sam. The havi refined from twelve skulls is kept for Savita Dev. Charu is related to Prajapati. The substance related to yajna is dedicated to Vishnu's wife and Aditi Dev. For Vaishvanar Dev, there is a refined havi in twelve skulls. Refined in twelve cranials for agni and refined in eight skulls for permissible god. (60)
O Ashwinikumaro! The chariot on which you sit and reach the devabhilashi hosts in any place, it is the one that makes the five ghosts famous, contains the three Vandhurs 
O Vaji! May this earth, merging your body into itself, do good to both you and us. Do not degenerate from your place, but mix your soul with the gods and the sun in the square to hold the light. 
The Jatveda agni grows by aiming at the glowing Usha with the divine flames. O supremely dynamic Ashwinikumaro! You come in front of our yajna by chariot. 
 Som is a delight for the respected and sincere. They are ahead of everyone in giving them pleasure. Soma gives indra enthusiasm and strength to destroy the wealth of strong enemies. 
O air! I am the first to bring you sweet somras, sanctified by vratcharyadi, because I want to go to heaven. O god of worship! You come here to Sompan by your aschas. 
I establish the earth and the sky and the day and the sun between me and the krita demon. Return the karta rakshasi by gem from the tilak tree, who saved the earth, sky etc. from the sky etc. and the host. (6)
O Indra revered in both places! We have taken your mind. The somras is squeezed and filled the container with honey. This praise, pronounced and finished with a medium tone, echoes repeatedly calling Indra. 
O auspicious aschini kumaras! When both of you went near the sun worthy of asking for by the groom, your deeds were appreciated by all the gods. Pusha accepted you just as the son accepts the Father. (16)
O agni! We worship you through Shobhan Kshetra, Shobhan Marga and the desire for wealth. Let our sins be destroyed. 
The stars of the name Vichrit, which rise or arise in the original nakshatra, save this tied man from dying and at the same time free him from bondage. (3)
The current ghee-producing milk in the cows located in the gaushala has been put in the vessel of the yagna. He's part of both of you, that's why come. O Ashwini Kumaro, the knower of Madhu Vidya! You are the possessor of yajna. O Ashchinikumars who follow the gods! Drink ghee heated in the agni, the publisher of Dulok. (4)
 O Indra! We get happiness by keeping cows with us. By your grace, our cows should be healthy and strong, give enough ghee and milk. 
O Gandharva with charity etc. qualities! You become the one to kill our opponents in the east direction from our place of residence. May your agni-like arrows be able to protect us from those inhabitants of the east direction. May they make us happy. Keep your arrows, snakes, scorpions, etc. enemies away from us. You call us yours. We greet you and sacrifice. (1)
In the third sky, the place of gods is Peepal. There the gods came to know the vegetable kutha with the quality of nectar. (1)
Fire burns trees like thirsty, moves around like water and says words like horses. The path of agni is black and they are heat-giving. Yet they are as beautiful as the starry sky. 
The divine and gavmixed somras has been squeezed. These Indras are involved in this somarupi grain by nature. O Indra with horses called Hari! We tell you our point through yajnas. You understand our point of being drunk of Mon. 
Indra's yajna part is like the money won. Those named Hari or green horses cannot do violence to Indra. The host who gives Someras to Indra, Indra establishes the force in him. (3)
We, the medhasams, the hymns, wish for cows, horses, food and women. Just as people lower the container to draw water from the well, so we bow down to find the friendship of the workman, the wife-giver and the indelible protector. 
O omniscient Mon! You are the one who performs yajnas because of your shobhan yajnas, powerful by your strength and the importance of the desired rain. You are endowed with the abundant amount of food given by the hosts as the desired fruit givers. 
O Indra! The man who receives your mercy becomes as firm as the axis of both wheels of the chariot, which is, driven by the grace of the psalms. (2)
Thus, constantly keeping the mind absorbed in me, the yogi of disciplined mind attains nirvāṇ, and abides in me in supreme peace.
Born, pure, perfect, and like a son, Soma, who is the one who increases the elaborate yagna and illuminates the dyava-prithvi like the mother. 
 Somerus is divine. The gods refine it sacramentally. He is green and is refined into holy sieves. 
 O agni! You have been appointed by the gods for the welfare of human beings. You are the hota 
We establish the presiding deity by remembering Agni, Vayu, Sun, Moon, Vasu, Rudra, Aditya, Marut, Vishwe Deva, Brihaspati, Idra Dev and Varun Dev. (20)
The hosts who squeeze the Somras day and night for the Great Indra become radiant.  Those who want to do righteous work, wear shobhan ornaments, etc., but even when they are rich, make bad people their friends, the powerful Indra abandons such people. 
O toothed and demon-resistant agni in both jaws! You muster the molars on both sides of you while depositing on the slaughterable monsters. O bright agni! Go near the demons in the sky and eat with your teeth. 
O light agni! Those who perform your yajna have provided a lot of speed. You call here the deities worthy of the yajna, for you wear the glory of the gods. 
O enemies Indra! You must move our chariot forward for the sake of enemyism with your very fast speed. 
The trees produced the land and the directions from the ground arose. Daksha was born from Aditi and later Aditi was born from Daksha. 
The inner forms of the gods and the periphery forms of humans are the mediators of the agni gods and humans. (44)
We know the virtuous power of the Rudraputra Maruts and Vishnu, who are karma-walas and watered with kripajal. 
We pray with delight, the beloved of many, the agni that sleeps in the yagnas and the holy radiant agni through charming and intoxicating hymns. 
O Varuna! Apart from you, no other scholar is meritorious and brave. Bum knows all the bhuvanas, so everyone is afraid of you. (4)
The present Usha follows the path of past ushas. This is the beginning of countless ushas to come. It removes darkness, awakens beings and makes people who are dead in sleep conscious. 
The host asks, "Who should one think about first of all?" Who is the greatest? Who is the greatest protector and beauty? Who is going to swallow the forms of all? (11)
O agni! We give you the riches made beautiful by the heart like a havan. May our given vows be transformed into cows and bulls for you. 
Sanjay said: Hearing these words of Keshav, Arjun trembled with dread. With palms joined, he bowed before Shree Krishna and spoke in a faltering voice, overwhelmed with fear.
O agni with the power of inspiring, glorious and sanctifying all! You make us sinless with your three glory of great power and power. 
The great milk of this honeycomb cow has been called the force of the ocean. Attracted by praises, wherever this Madhukasha cow goes, nectar is established in the lives of those living there. (2)
Three kinds of subjects transcend and receive God. One type of i.e. satoguni subjects enter the sun. The second type of i.e. rajoguni subjects are located measuring Rajolok. Thirdly, tamoguni subjects take away everyone and enter green color i.e. darkness. (3)
The appearance of Usha and night is different, yet they increase the agni. Similarly, the real and movable nectar forms increase the intestinal agni. The agnis that call the gods by being located in the devyagna should worship all the yajnakarma giving truth. 
The bright thunderbolt of the giver Indra is admirable among us. Indra follows the hymn named Uardhwakrishan and the yajnakar as a god named Ribhu. 
O fire! You should remove from us all diseases as well as those who do not commit fire. O light and fire worthy of yajna! You come with all the other gods and give us the best fruit in the yajna. 
Oh my friend! Do us well. O lord of wealth and the goddess who makes the path beneficial! You do us well. May Indra and Agni benefit us. O Aditi, you do us well. 
O agni! Your beloved light comes close to objects like ornaments day and night. 
O agni! Please be kind that the host who knows your importance can please all the gods. O agni! The yajna we will perform will be yours. 
This golden colored earth had become rich due to the influence of Hiranyakashyap. This unbreakableness destroys delightfulness. I salute this. (10)
O son of strength and a agni of sight! You are born in our yajna today and by ploughing your straight, thick, bright and powerful horses in the chariot, you become messengers to carry the evil between gods and human beings other than Nabh. 
Hey Ritvijo! Worship the marudganas lit, worthy of praise and appointed by all the people, so that they may attain the growth of this yajna of ours. 
O Indra! Make me a protector of the people too. O Maghwa and Somyukt Indra! Make me the master of all, the sage and the sompankarta and give me money without decay. 
Indra Dev is bright and brilliant. All the gods have honored them together. All the gods surround them and worship them. He is a great worldview. He has gained fame by killing many asuras. They are immortal. (22)
The wind entered the woods and increased the fire that was of the gods, the one who was different and skilled in performing the yajna work related to all the gods. In ancient times, the gods had held this fire in the form of ritvij as a ritual for the yajnasiddhi. 
The agni which is world-protected, full of praise and as bright as Aditya, the presence of agni by which the whole world is pervaded and whose huge lights are illuminated, from the aura of the same agni, Aditya becomes light. 
O Indra! You are good-minded, glorious and delightful. 
The Supreme Personality of Godhead is very glorious. At the feet of this are all beings. One part of this is on earth, in which all beings are and three parts are located in paradise. (3)
O Indra called by many! Let us overcome the evil that has come from poverty with your grace and the help of animals and calm our wide hunger through the yewes. We achieve the main wealth by staying with the kings by our power. 
Let this psalm of ours be well present in the face of the power of the Maruts, the son of Rudra. They are young. Oh mind! Desire attracts me to wealth. Praise the maruts who come to the yagna on horses with bundkis. 
The sun resides in wealth. They distribute suvarna, rajatadi form properly among the wealth hosts. We invoke the sun that gives light to humans. 
Indra, who has a snake-like high head, the vessel of yajna and the giver to the cows, defeats many enemies even when he is alone. The psalms bring the filler and the sweeping Indra before us to drink the somras. 
Indra hit Vrithra with the helper Maruts. He made cows for the sake of yajna with havan pots and revered maruts. That is why the best cow, who holds a havya with ghee and gives a sufficient amount of havya, gave delicious and sweet milk for the host. 
O deserters! You are situated as a gana, benefactors and bravery of the host. When you forcefully have devastating wrath, you fill the earth and the sky with thunder. Just as everyone sees the electricity in the clear form and clouds, so you are all seen sitting in the chariot with the chariot. 
O famous Indra! You hold money without decay in your hands and unbeatable force in your body. Just as the people who fill the water surround the well, so the deeds of bravery and deeds of vritaravadhi are surrounding your body. O Indra! That is why there are many karmas in your body. 
Neither the sense of doership nor the nature of actions comes from God; nor does he create the fruits of actions. All this is enacted by the modes of material nature (guṇas).
Listen to the call, including all my praises, to the dying, the diverse, the diverse, and the strange-light agni. Two horses of black or red color pull the chariot of agni. They are taken to different places by Ritvizo. 
In the scriptures etc., knowledge and ignorance, other preachable emotions, after the mantras of Rigveda, Samaveda and Yajurveda, Brahma i.e. the soul, part of Brahma, entered the body. (23)
O Mon and Pusha! You are the father of wealth, heaven and earth. As soon as you were born, you became the protector of the whole of Bhuvan. The gods made you the centerpiece of immortality. 
Havi has been accepted in upyam for Prajapati Dev. This is your favorite place. We assume you in this. This is your native place. The sun is the glory of you. The day is an indicator of your glory. Samvatsar is an indicator of your glory. Air is an indicator of your glory. Space folk is an indicator of your glory. Heaven is an indicator of your glory. Swaha for the glorious Prajapati. Swaha for all the gods. (2)
O agni! You are indestructible. The host first ignites you. You give money to the hosts. You are adorned with your beautiful body. You fulfill all the aspirations in the yajna. (109)
In Usha, night, day and evening, Indra Dev is combined with special force with Ashwinikumar Goddess Saraswati. (61)
Indra holding the thunderbolt, who is called by many, fulfills the desire of the host who squeezes the somaras along with wealth, goes to his house to protect the host. Where is that brave Indra? Who has seen Indra walking on a pleasing chariot pulled by horses named Hari? 
O fastmaruto! I come to you with my greetings and words of praise and ask for your mercy. Please your heart with praises, renounce anger and separate the horses from the chariot. 
These stones that feed on somras receive Indra's horses. Their juice comes out and goes over the gocharm. By drinking the sweet somras extracted by these stones, Indra grows, expands and shows the power of the same as a sand. 
 The Sun is light and capable. They illuminate the whole earth. They are unsung. They live with force. They are going to win money. His light is huge, the best of the lights and the winner of the world. 
The lighter of this radiant horse is the only season. Night and day are going to control that season. Oh, horse! By making your limbs which I cut at a favorable time, I will make them a pinna in the fire. 
The beautiful water is moving forward by crossing the circle lying on the earth in the same way that sarita flows through the broken edges. The water he was holding with his power in his living state, at this time he has fallen asleep under the same water. 
O Indra who killed the vritra demon! You destroy the demons and conquer the battles. You destroy the cupolas of our enemy as powerful as the tree. (3)
O Indra! Your heavenly body, unknown by others and characterized by many, is very wide. From him you have created the past and the future. From him came your beloved element, the ancient light i.e. Aditya. Because of that, the Panchjanwas pleased. 
O Lord Yama! Protect this dead man from those who are the protectors of your house, the four-eyed, the protectors of the way and the two dogs who are admired by humans, and give him welfare and infirmity. 
In the beginning of creation, Brahma created humankind along with duties, and said, “Prosper in the performance of these yajñas (sacrifices), for they shall bestow upon you all you wish to achieve.”
O Indra! You are the father of horses and cows. O gentleman and multi-worked Indra! Drink your certain portion of the Somras by the gods by defeating all the enemies and velocities and victorious among the waters. 
Hey, Lord! You sleep in the solar system and ask the sun, "O Aditya! What inspires our karma?" The sun replies, "There is an air that awakens you. When the year passes, spread the light in the world." 
O Indra and Soma! You look at each demon as your adversary and consider the various demons as your opposites. You both stay awake to protect us and run your armament thunderbolt to kill violent demons. (25)
O Maintainer of all living entities, what pleasure will we derive from killing the sons of Dhritarasthra? Even though they may be aggressors, sin will certainly come upon us if we slay them. Hence, it does not behoove us to kill our own cousins, the sons of Dhritarashtra, and friends. O Madhav (Krishna), how can we hope to be happy by killing our own kinsmen?
Young, invoicable, friendly and pleasing Indra, we protect the yajnakartas. Idra completes the yajna by protecting those who speak praise, cook the havan, those who make praises and complete the yajna kriyas. 
O Indra! Whoever is rich and does not donate to the riches or condemns you, bring his money to us. 
O Indra! On the same day that you were born, you drank the fresh juice of somalata that originated on the mountains when you were thirsty. The young mother who gave birth to you in your great father's house gave you somers before feeding you milk. 
O glorious agni! We give great money to the devotees for requesting. 
Fire gamblers, living in holy places, blessed. They are going to settle all in space. They are the worshippers of gods. They are the guests living in the altar, worshipped everywhere. They are going to live in the yagnagriha. They live as prana in humans. They are Vyomns and originated from Chingari. They are derived from mercury and stone. They are huge. (14)
O sin-correcting agni! In this Sangopang Yajna, drops of ghee are dripping for the food of you and the gods. For this reason, give us the wealth and selectable. 
O Indra! The clouds are wide because of your fear and rain the water produced in the sky. Well that water is not worth dropping down. By your coming, the earth, the heavens, the mountains, the forests, and all beings are afraid. 
Jupiter tied the gem made from the wood of the fruit, ghee dripping, shaktishalaini and khair tree to gain strength. It was given to me by the sun. With this, I won all these directions. O host! May this gem give you wealth every day and again, with the help of which you can destroy your enemies. (9)
 By the grace of Soma, we should get all kinds of money that we want for humans. We wish for the best use of those funds. 
O Usha with wide and colorful light! We can neither understand you from afar nor from close by. 
Stotas increase the agni identified by the flame on the basis of yajnakarma. The agnis that give the desired fruits to the hymns are illuminated. 
Holding fast to such views, these misdirected souls, with small intellect and cruel actions, arise as enemies of the world threatening its destruction.
O serpent named Arbudi belonging to the jati of God! You get up with your army. After this, while killing the armies of enemies, close their eyes with your serpent bodies. (5)
O God of Agni! Attack the demon due to which women and men are full of anger and the listeners of the yajna are chanting mantras with katuwani, attack that demon with your flame. (12)
Just as dried trees fall due to air, so o gem! Protect me by destroying my past and later enemies. (15)
God has produced food. They have given shelter to all the worlds. He has given shelter to heaven. Please give us money to offer sacrifices to the Supreme Father and the gods. May the Supreme Father give us the most heroic progeny. Please inspire our intellect for the Supreme Father (auspicious works). (24)
 The hosts have filtered someras. It is sweet and enjoyable. It reaches its ancient place. O Mon! You are going to do a special inspection. The host who has the feeling of performing a good yajna, you keep your grace on that host. 
May the presiding deity of these six seasons - summer, hemant, shishir, spring, autumn and rain - establish us in the easy-to-get wealth. O proud gods of seasons! You enumerate us with cows and sons, grandsons etc. Let us live in your home where the causes of all sorrows are lacking. (2)
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be ten and hundred, one hundred and ten, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (10)
Yamraj, the officer of charu roop anna, who has made it a ghost, who is the swami of the stones covering these charus, O brothers! Satisfy those Yama Dev through the hives. May they nurture us for a long life. (54)
O Shakadhum Brahmin and O Moon, swami of the stars! Salutations to you to the welfare of you who have done us in the evening, at night and during the day. (4)
Oh my friend, Ritvizo! Come quickly. We will praise Indra, the leader and single-handedly defeated all enemy armies. 
The agnis, worthy of praise by humans and with beautiful flames, reveal each of the sacrificial sites and the three published realms with their glory. They satisfy the gods in the higher part of the yagna by smoothening the havya with the desire to shower ghee. 
The swami of the cow gets a disaster called Vikalindu from the place of the feet of the cow without marriage. By smelling it, its substances are destroyed without knowing it. (5)
O agni! Those who are dirty in man, thieves, who are robbers in man, wilderness robbers, who are going to kill by killing humans in their armpits, you should wear them in your molars and kill them. (79)
If the mother and father cook odan to get rid of speech-borne sin or other sin, then that odan pervades heaven and dyava earth with its glory. (5)
He is a wishy Mon! Your strength, your service and your item are full of desire. You're truly full of desires. 
The sacrificial gods had made praises worthy of agni by living amidst the vast sky and the earth. The deserters learned with Indra that the agnis are hidden in the best place. Then received them. 
Uttam, like seven brothers and the only one who fulfills the place of Soma, sits in the seven hota yagnas. 
Varuna, the world-holder and the son of Aditi, has made water. The rivers flow from their importance. Rivers never rest or retreat. These early-lived rivers flow on the earth at the same speed as birds. 
On his way out of the house to kill the vritradi bandit, the Vajradhari and Shanrupretaka Indra, for the host describing the force from the name he had named for the Jai characterization, Dhanaswami Indra, the sun, forms a group of man-to-day nights. 
O cold fever! You are the son of the bright Varuna, who mourns the body, dries the body in all ways. You are famous by the name Hudh. You should get out of our body by knowing our body soaked in hot water as your place of birth. (3)
O sahadevi or the way! Protect me by hundreds and thousands of measures and deliver me from the guilt of actions. O swami of herbs! May Maha Tejasvi Indra establish your brilliance in me. (8)
Varun has three tongues in his mouth. He who sits among them is Vasha. Accepting that as a donation is a hard task. (28)
Birds like pigeons with beautiful wings, which are willing to say things about women, disease-free companions also want to say the same thing. May my call on that subject be like a scum-filled arrow for that Kamini. That is, he should listen to me and become subdued by me. (3)
Goose bird for mon, heron for air. Stork has been arranged for Indra Dev and Agni, Crouch for Mitra Dev and Chakwe for Barun Dev. (22)
O Indra! The world-illuminator illuminate the earth and the sky for the Sun Yajna. Let us stay away from widespread sin. O Vasuo who is pleased by the praise! Give enough and rich rich money to the host who donates more. 
O Indra! When our horses are loudly engrossed because of fear, at that time you inspire our horses holding them with the reins of the arms. So that they move forward like the streams flowing down in the go-friendly struggle or the desire for meat. 
O agni! You swell with juice on the earth. You create on earth with juice, water and medicine. We get drugs and water by the grace of agni. (35)
Those who have many cows, horses, villages, chariots, yards, camels, etc. to give to those who ask for it, who have risen the sun for light and revealed Usha, who are the originators of rain water, are Indra. (7)
This nityatarun ashwinikumaro! You hear my call today, come into the house with a hawala, donate gems and make the gifts. Oh, God! You protect us forever by your welfare means. 
Excellent, poor or moderate walking or sitting, living in the house or fighting and wanting food call indra. 
Savita Dev with a charitable mind, with a golden hand, with a golden chin, a sacrificial vessel and a cheerful expression, should rise at the end of the night. They give a lot of food to the havandaar host. 
O aschinikumaro! Your beloved man is sitting here. Stay with him who performs your yajna and worship, and drink his sweet somarah, and I call you in peace. 
While being killed, these som ritvijas make a very intoxicating stream to get great food. 
 O Mon! You are dear, poet, benefactor and distinguished at the wooden altar. You are a long-term giver. In the yajna, your divine juice is obtained by the grace of Adhwaryu 
O leader, Lord! By your grace, it may be possible to give ratna-like dakshina in the third sustenance to the host who serves and gives a havan by praise. O Vajgan and Rybhuo! In the third suvn we give a sufficient amount of somras for your happiness. You drink it. 
The first to be born, like all the parents, living in the shrine of the first to be born and in the same place. The dyava-prithvi pujyas with similar deeds irrigate Varuna with the flowing water. 
O bright Vishnu! The lord of the praises and those who know things worth knowing, we will call your famous name today. We will praise you even without growth, even if we are very prosperous. You live beyond Raja i.e. Dharalok. 
 Indra's arms are like elephant trunks. Please first inspire those arms into battle. You are strong, stable and young. No one can control you. 
The juice of the sweet mon upgrades the praises. The Great Som goes to the kalash covering the water. Dashapavitra is the chariot of King Som. The unmitigated mons go to war and win a lot of food for us. 
O host! May the Indra whom I wish to praise for your protection, may my praises permeate the same Indra for quick service and yajna. 
O agni! Accept my samidahs installed on the north altar and consume a spoon full of ghee. O agni with great wisdom! You rise up for the best days in the advanced region of the earth with the flames caused by the divine. 
My tongue, shaking from within and tied in my mouth, says that you have been abandoned by tuberculosis and the attack of fever on you has calmed down. (16)
O Vijayavati and Prajavati! You hide agni, men and animals in you. We open your nooses. (14)
Mon, who knows everyone, goes east. Hey Mon! Your visible and divine chariot meets with the rays of the sun. The praises made by human beings go to Indra and make Indra rejoice to win. Vajra also goes to Indra. Hey Mon! You and Indra listen to praises from enemies. 
Actions based upon sacrifice, charity, and penance should never be abandoned; they must certainly be performed. Indeed, acts of sacrifice, charity, and penance are purifying even for those who are wise.
Mitra Dev and Varun Dev are pure, efficient and sin-washers. We worship them with a watered, simple intellect with ghee. (57)
O thunderous and radiant Indra! You are admired by the way to battle by adding the horses named Hari, who walk faster than the wind and go through the brightest way, and the brightest way. 
O Arvan Dev! Our chariots emulate you. We emulate you. Our songs and the fate of our daughters follow you. Let us emulate you. We found your friendship. The gods have described your might. (19)
O Sahadevi or Apamarg! You are superior among all herbs, just as the sun is superior among those who light up! You are the protector of the weak and the destroyer of the demon who obstructs it. (3)
O root called gwarapatha! Indra held you in his arms to do violence to the asuras. Defeat the opponents who ask me questions and dry the throats of my opposing speakers so that they cannot speak. (3)
You are going to know the path of rise and have been called by this sacrificial deed. May Uttarayan and Dakshinayan be spent in your life. (7)
If the husband wants to cover his body with the bride's clothes, then the husband's bright body becomes without luster due to the mensurating act. 
For the sky, for the eye, for the constellation and for the sun, the ruler of the deuloc, this divine sacrifice should be of shobhan offering. (3)
 O Indra! It is prepared for you by squeezing and filtering somerous. You are very rich. Please be pleased with Someras. 
O Janardan (Krishna), I have heard from the learned that those who destroy family traditions dwell in hell for an indefinite period of time.
Sacrificing cucumbers in the agni, this bride wishes that my husband is long-lived and lives for a hundred years. (63)
Just as the king reveres a man without a little wealth, so the host and human beings in the forest soon grace the host. Like a protector, the workers are as well-being as the worker, the one who invokes the devas in the yagna and the one who makes a gesture is Agni Shobhankarma. 
O Indra! Bring horses soaked due to the drops of labor before us to sit on the chariot that gives you happiness and sit on the lying kushas. (9)
Just as the host gives a greeting to Indra even at night, so Indra also gives him wealth and splendor. 
O Indra! You stopped the radiant water from all around and killed the present radiant and sleeping circle through war and left the waters to flow as fast as a horse in the war. 
Oh, King! I cover your marmalades with armor. King Mon cover you with nectar. Varun give you the greatest pleasures. May God be pleased after you have won. 
O Indra! These broad-earth can't separate the glory that you have after you have done sompan. You come to the host's house by ploughing your beloved horses in the chariot and get dear food. 
O Indra! May the Somerasa that we cultivate with stones satisfy you. The person who performs this has a stone in his hand. O Indra! You drink this someras. (1)
Agni had soon cooked three hundred buffaloes for his friend Indra. Indra had drunk The Mon, who was filled with three characters of Manu together, to kill Vritra. 
O God! Hosts please you by getting your friendship and enjoy a variety of pleasures by getting your protection while speaking hymns. After receiving new protection from you, we ask you for the money you have to spare. O God! Many people praise you. You come kind to us and walk ahead of us in the war. 
We call back the mind of yours that has gone far into this world. You live to inhabit this world. 
Hey Mon! The psalms milk your sweet juice for the purpose of the gods. 
O Shataudana Gau! Both your hind parts are irrigated with ghee and purodash. O Goddess! Make them wings and take the Sustainer to heaven. (25)
O Indra! Who made your mother a widow? Who wanted to kill you while you were sleeping? Which is the God of happiness than you? Who grabbed your father's feet and killed him? 
After returning from the yajnas, the gods created vasha, then Narada accepted the more ghee and giant vasha. (41)
Please do the work of reciting mantras with karmakarva speech. Please leave the hosts living with mutual love by performing rituals of the gods. (47)
The God, who is skilled in killing the enemies, has tied this belt to kill his enemy, which binds the belt of others even at this time, who has engaged us in abhichar karma through the mekhala and the god by whose command we walk, he wishes to end the abhichar started by us. May he free us from our enemies. (1)
Crows, pigeons, etc. fall on this man's body while looking again and again with the desire to kill. O agni! To calm this defect, we serve you with great enthusiasm for the glory of the dog living in heaven. (1)
The powerful and knowledgeable agni protects the host from the blasphemers, whose heart is insulated from the demons etc. in the yagnas and which is separated from the hosts of other gods. 
O Indra! You had turned the demons inverted by the Maya who were willing to expand and aspire to climb to heaven. 
O united with the yajnas, sitting on a chariot containing the prishti, adorning his weapons, those who love the arbhars, the sons of Bharata and the marudgans, the leader of space! You sit on the shacks that you have laid down and do sompan with your grandson. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Give us strength as hands and give us water like earth and sky. The praises we have made go near you. Just as San sharpens the sword, so do you sharpen our praises. 
Indra, called by many hosts, with the help of dynamic maruts, attacked the enemies and demons living on earth and killed them with violent thunderbolts. Shobhan Vajrayukta Indra divided the land, sun and water occupied by his enemies with the Deeptang Marutan with white coloured ornaments. 
O great parushni river and great water! I'm telling you the truth. No man can give more pitchers than this mighty king Shruterva. 
May the beautiful horses of Indra bring his chariot closer to the Kushas laid in our yajna. (5)
We do not even know which result of this war is preferable for us—conquering them or being conquered by them. Even after killing them we will not desire to live. Yet they have taken the side of Dhritarasthra, and now stand before us on the battlefield.
O Indra! Kill our enemies and make those willing to fight us without force. Whoever harms us from all around, put him in the darkness. 
Brahmatma Indra! Drink the rituals performed in the full yajna karma with the beautiful praises of the Brahmin name Ritwija. (3)
O Indra! May our most uplifting praises come to you. You inspire us to get great wealth. 
Poets, publishers and deathless agnis are seated among the akvi and the death religion people. O mighty agni! We are kind of aloof towards you in the world. You don't do our violence. 
The streams flow well while sounding. Let the air flow in our favour. All creatures like birds etc. behave according to us. O God of praise! For the host for whom this yajna form of peace work is being done, you should increase it with sons, animals etc. I offer in the agni of Havi containing Ghee, Ksheer etc. for the purpose of you gods. (1)
O Indra! You were worthy of calling in ancient times and are called to find the hidden wealth of enemies in the present tense. We call you. You hear our call. 
The path of the Angiras is the agni of the name of the east. The path of adityas is the agni of garhapatya. Dakshina Agni is the path of skilled people in yajna work. You get the glory of agni established in the yajna through Veda mantras with strong limbs and full body. (8)
The Brahmin whose son is going to be assumed. That Brahmin is capable of making desired promises. This is what Gandharva says. (3)
 O Mon! You were praised by Jamdagni 
The intellect is considered in the mode of passion when it is confused between righteousness and unrighteousness, and cannot distinguish between right and wrong conduct.
O Indra! Come. Soma has been squeezed for you, drink it and sit on the kushas laid by me. (1)
O Aschinikumaro, lord of the host of men! We go with a greeting and hymn to praise your chariot. O praiseworthy Ashwinikumaro! Just as the Son awakens the Father, so I praise your chariot that awakens in the form of a messenger to come before me. 
Indra, who gives human-owned food to the nurturer and the host, should give us the same kind of food. O Indra! Divide the money to give us, for you have innumerable wealth. We get a fraction of your wealth. 
O men wishing for age! May the God of food save you from death and save you. Do not cry over your death, do not cry over your death. Do not cry because of your relative's sorrow. (19)
The rivers said, "We both flow towards the ocean created by Indra, satiating through this water. There will be no end to our movement. With what desire is this Brahmin calling on both of us?" 
 O Indra! People who worship you with a good heart. Please shower water from heaven for them. 
O Indra and Mon! You generate the contravenive armament from space. For those who praise sins, you create an armament from the earth. You generate from the clouds the deadly thunderbolt that destroyed the enlarged monster. 
O enemies Indra! You hear our praise, show us the beloved wealth to the psalms and give us that money with an evil heart. 
The agnis that see the substances in the lap of the mother earth, should remove them by knowing the indecent conditions of the sage Vavi, who are. 
The agni said, "O gods! Just as the charioteer goes down the road, so my three brothers respectively ended up bearing the hawya. Hey Varun! It's this fear that I've come away. Just as the gourd is afraid of the archer's sine, so I tremble with the work of carrying out the wind." 
O evil, brilliant, ever-growing and heroic son-giving agni! Spread out on the altar to give us money! O Vasuo, Vishvadev and Adityas worthy of the yajna! You sit on the cushions wet with ghee. 
O Mon! You have fallen to heaven and space. You are divinely illuminated. You hold money for the host, give money, you help the host. (33)
Pick up the remaining somas from the somas squeezing panels and place it on top of the sacred kushas, then place it in a pot made from gocharma. 
The same Is Aryama, the same Varun, the same Rudra and the same Mahadev. (4)
O Indra who performs hundreds of kinds of yajna! Just as the cows go to the calves again and again, so so our praises come to you. 
The unborn God is one. She is more dynamic and agile than the mind. Devgans are also not able to achieve this. Even when it is still, it beats the moving dynamics. He lives in water. It holds air. (4)
It is protectable and it is worth killing - O Agni Dev with these two kinds of knowledge! You are violent and with sharp flames. You put our enemy and the man we have hated between your two molars. After this, you wander in the sky. O God of Agni! Chew the demons with your teeth while roaming around to obstruct me. (3)
Oh my God! You are proficient in divine genres. Please announce in the meeting of the deities that Devgan leads the yajna in the east direction. They lead the yajna in the desired direction. Devgans bring yajna to fruition. Devgans take the yajna to a height. Further, please declare in the enclosure of the cows (in the cow shed) that the deity should be kind to grant age to the host. Don't let the deity condemn the host. The deities bless the host to live happily. May God bless you to live happily in these places of the earth. (17)
O gods with a force of delight! Today, when the sun rises, give us a welfare house. O Lord of all wealth, O Gods! Give us home at sunset, in the morning or at noon. 
When will we gladly read the hymn, targeting Rudra, who has knowledge, fulfills desires, is very great and dwells in the heart? 
Self-inspired, white-bunked deer, the eternal youth, the extraordinary powerful, the Satyakarma, the debt-freer to the stothas, the unincorporated and water-year-olds protect our yajna. 
Agni is the protector of the body and the holy resolve. May Saraswati Devi, the organs holding the hot verses and divine havi, be pleased to hold strength and age for us. (13)
O Indra and Varuna! You thus become the giver of delightful wealth to us human beings who praise us. If both of you friends are friends of the host and are pleased with the somers squeezed by him, give us money. 
This is the hymn! You must praise them knowing the importance of the great heavens and the great earth. My mind desires all the enjoyments. In the yagnas of human beings, the gods who want to serve the earth and the sky are happy to praise together. 
The characters named Chamu include the present, the praiseworthy, the powerful, the wanderers in the characters, those who get the cow to the hosts, the ordnance duty, the instigators of water, those who accept the service of the sea and the Great Som iv Dham, i.e. Chandralok. 
O Indra! The wise hymn sends you the joyful praise in the yajna through his service deeds in the same way that people send their brothers to the best place. 
O Shur Indra! In a war of men, if a thunderbolt falls between us, or O Lord! We are having terrible wars with our enemies, at that time you become the protectors of our bodies. 
Som, who defeats the bright enemies, who makes peace and attains heaven, goes to Indra. 
O God of rigveda! O God of Samaveda! O disciple god! We touch (reach you) with the verses sung in the yajna. Please protect us while singing the verses. You are the giver of shelter ( happiness). Please give us shelter (happiness). Hello to you. You don't trouble us. (9)
 O Indra! You get an increase from the havi. You do all the deeds. We sacrifice ourselves for the welfare of the world. The morale of the people who are opposed to the yajna was broken. Indra become ours. Intellectuals should become ours. 
This sacrifice is offered to the deserts who see the havi in g in this way, who see it from other eyes, see it with equal eyes and see it with a collective vision. (81)
They know how to greet the gods respectively from the bright agni hosts and give dear wealth to the host in the yajnashala. 
O mighty man! All of your work is certainly true. O karyati Indra! All the cows, out of fear of you, drip more milk from their trunks. O Indra with a working heart! For fear of you, the rivers flow more rapidly. 
 O Mon! May the host know you 
May Indra, Savita, Soma, Prajapati and Agni Dev inspire my mind towards the wealth from which I do business in the form of profit. (6)
If the deity encroaches on the human beings of the people, then one should praise Vaishvanar. (7)
O Indra called by many! We will conquer our enemies in battle and defeat the wicked. We will kill Vrittar with the help of the leaders maruts and increase the yagnakams. O Indra! Protect our yajnako. 
This gem with a garland of gold should be a guest in our house wearing reverence, sacrifice and glory. (4)
Me is surrounded by me insatiable, short-term, super-toxin, watery, and terrestrial beings, burning and invisible beings. 
Oh, God! Those who serve you by the mixed havya of ghee, all of you go to him. 
God has possessed both heaven and earth. He has taken on space i.e. sky. The same God has taken six huge directions i.e. East, West, North, South, Up and Down directions. The same God is absorbed in this whole world. (35)
O Indra! You are the destroyer of enemies and drink soma. Two fast-moving horses take you to the yagna site. O Mon! You are eligible to be assumed in the urn. This is your shelter. That is why we accept you for the happiness of Indra by selling sixteen arts. (35)
Just as the fast-moving bull favors the group of cows by adapting the group with its own force, same way the indra who fulfills the desires makes the human beings powerful. Indra is capable and does not reject anyone's prayer. 
All gods choose this one. (13)
May the Ajaekpada Dev give us peace. May the sea and the sea give us peace. Give us peace to the relatives who have overcome the nuisance. May the earth protected by the gods give us peace. 
 O Indra! You are a resident of heaven. You are the giver of good charity, very capable and sustainer. We want hundreds of thousands of godhan from you. We want abundant food, wealth from you. 
Sings make the somarup shobhan food tasty for the gods through their milk. The mons squeezed by the ritwijas are purified by water. 
At the time of the creation of Rohith by the gods, Brihat was on one side and Rathantar on the other side. Both of these are powerful and co-living sides. O Rohit Dev, the criminal of this angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! Staggering and make it weak and tie it in your bond. (12)
O Indra! Be indifferent to the sages who have not praised you, and get growth only by my praise. (3)
Brahma is the eldest of the sages. The heroic deeds that those sages did. This is the best of all, in this sense, in the beginning of creation, Brahma expanded the duloka i.e. heaven. Brahma was born before all beings. Which god and man can compete with those Brahmas? (30)
The house of the commenascent Indra is Dyava-Prithvivi. They go to war at a fast pace with horses. The huge praise wishes for the mighty Indra. You give the host a huge grain. 
Agni, like an army with the commander or like the bright head arrows of Dhanushka's, is intimidating to the enemies. The Bhoot Sangha which appear or will appear in the future is only Agni. Agni is the king of virgins and the husband of married women. 
O Anjan! Knowing Your glory, I will say reality, I will not speak untruth. By becoming your slave, I will get a horse, cow and life. (7)
You are the one who donates sea, the nabhavan, the water and the one who donates happiness to the land. Swaha for you. are dead. There are ganas of maruts. are pleasant. He is the shelter of all. Sorrow is going to be removed. You are very happy. This sacrifice is an offering to you. Swaha for you. (45)
His luminous system is never separated from the sun. Night is as expanding as day, so I do real deeds. I make destructive acts unable to act to protect a man suffering from acts of humiliation. (1)
May heaven be peaceful for us. May the space world be peaceful for us. May the earth be peaceful for us. May God of Water be kind to us to be peaceful. May The Goddess bless us with peace. May the Botanical God bless us with peace. May all the gods be kind to us to be peaceful. May Parabrahma bless us with peace. May peace also be peaceful for us. (17)
Let our secret speech be uniform. The trend in our work should be the same. Our karma should also be uniform and our conscience should also be like this. O Devo, to get the said fruit! Let us perform havan for you with ajya etc. who create unity. From this, you all get unity. (2)
O Indra! Protect us from behind, forward, down, above and all sides. Remove from us the weapons of demons and the fear of gods. 
The pleasing Usha gives beautiful milk for the sake of anti-agni. Usha's son Surya moves within Usha. A bright-speed day holds the all-light sun. Even before Usha, those who praise the Ashwinikumars wake up. 
O Rudra Dev! Those who disturb the people who drink food in the characters, you make their bows without attachment. You remove their bows from us thousands of plans. (62)
One who knows earth, Jupiter and agni as Brahma attains Brahman Force and Brahmavarchas. (8)
O Varuna! You remove the bondage above, between and below us. You are Aditi's son. Let us be anass towards Aditi. (12)
The muscled fingers meet the lord of the grains, The Mon, and climb on the back of the mighty Som. 
Savita Dev is the leader of all the gods. They have varenya (superior) qualities. We want to be friends with them. We want all kinds of splendour from them. We all want to get money from them. We want heavenly glory . We want money to nurture the people. Swaha for Savita Dev. (8)
O Indra! You are born with force, semen and oz. O Indra who rains! You fulfill our desire. 
Som had fallen as a stream, killing enemies, killing those who did not donate money, and finding Indra's place. 
In all the worlds of this material creation, up to the highest abode of Brahma, you will be subject to rebirth, O Arjun. But on attaining my abode, O son of Kunti, there is no further rebirth.
There is no duty for me to do in all the three worlds, O Parth, nor do I have anything to gain or attain. Yet, I am engaged in prescribed duties.
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be two and twenty-two, but make my words sweet, for you are sweet. (2)
This altar roopini earth! You become thornless to the man who dies and give him all kinds of happiness. (19)
O Indra! Come to eat our havya containing the word Swaha, because Ritwizu is calling you. 
Sin be received by him who has sinned. The oath should go to the one who has taken the oath. I return Krita in such a way that he destroys his creator. (5)
The early horses of Brahmanaspati listen to our hymns. Civilized and intelligent adhwaryu is provided by beautiful hymns. He is the master of strong demons, who accepts debts of his own free will, and the lord of food. Let them accept our speech in the war. 
We request fever to go to places with moong and high rainfall, that you should go there or go to other places and eat the things there. (8)
The devas give up their sleep in the morning and please the agni in the yagna due to water. Great, salutation salutations and true agnis always know the yajnas of the hosts. 
O soothing and wetting mon of dashapavitra! We pray to you for friendship. 
O aschinikumaro! Your yajna-related kadha mantra is wet with the saying, O Lord of Food and Wealth, Ashwinikumaro! This is the same sweet somras, which you had to drink and go to Vritra. 
He is the god of the great name, who is born from asat i.e. nature. People call them superior. (25)
Let there be a propaganda of the truth. Let truth prevail. Religion should be respected by conduct and religion. Find the divine realm with divinity, conquer space for space by pact. Conquer the earth for the earth through pratidhan. Enjoy the rain for rain. Make the vasus happy for the vasus. Make Adityas happy for the enlightened Adityas. (6)
Cucumber was dug. (3)
Hey Mon! Just as rivers complete the bhulok with their stream, so do you complete us from all around with your pleasing stream. 
Ashwarupi Dadhikra Dev is quick to walk even when he is tied in the neck, orbit and mouth. They are more powerful and quickly walk everywhere on the crooked paths leading to the yagna. 
 O Indra! You are of many kinds of splendour. Our praises want to come to you again and again, just as milk cows come to calves again and again. 
Indra had destroyed Arbud by attaining progress by the trita, who was pleased and squeezing the som.  Just as the Sun moves the wheel of his chariot forward, indra, with the help of the angiras, wielded his vajra and destroyed the force. 
O Indra! When the Somras are deserted, the great hymns begin to speak and vedic hymns begin to appear, then you add horses to your chariot. O Dhanaswami Indra! You carry a thunderbolt in both hands and come with the help of two horses attached to the chariot. 
Hey friend and Varun! Come, both of you, called by the hymns of adornment and the hyavin. Just as the possessor of karma subdues those who seek food through karma, so do you subdue such people by your importance. 
O Indra! May you receive praise and love from us and make more progress and give us wealth and sons. O gods of agni! You also be our protector while doing our welfare. (11)
We know the friend of hundreds of powers and the father of arrows, that is, the Sun. O sick man! With this arrow, I destroy your urinary diseases. The urine stuck in your stomach came out and fell on the earth. (2)
O agni with friendly radiance! Whoever hinders us by staying in a hidden place or commits violence against us by staying close, end such an enemy with your little unsightly swiftness. O work year and more fulfilling agni! You're stunning. 
The thirsty and surrounded by kings, vasishtaputras raised Indra like the sun in the Dashragyana war, pleading for rain. The praises of Vasishta were heard by Indra and gave a wide kingdom to the Tritsu kings. 
Mosses grown in water and cane contain the essence of water which is their protector. O agni! You are water-related pitta. That is why I calm you down with a cane branch, river fen and doob, etc. (5)
May the sages who compose seventeen richas get this sacrifice well. (14)
O Indra as terrible as thunderbolt! Just as agni burns a dry forest, so do you burn demons with your thunderbolt. Indra destroyed the enemies by the undefeated and the great vajra. Indra, who roars in the battle, penetrates the enemies. 
May we soon subdue all the people and attain happiness through Indra and all the gods. 
Let our bulls carry the load happily, the servants should do the farming work happily, our ploughs go to the earth happily, our ropes should be tied up happily and the whip that drives the animals should be carried out with pleasure. 
Through this mantra, we invoke the enemies, the leader of heaven and the leader of the muscle power and the friend and Varuna who move forward like a go-group. 
O agni who knows everything! The best mantras by which you got milk, ghee etc. juice for Indra in the form of havi, O agni! Increase this man through the same mantras and make him superior among the people of your jati. (3)
Som goes between them, dividing the water-holding space into two parts with his fast. Bhuvan for the omniscient Mon becomes elaborate. Just as the milking cows are rambhati in the goshala, so the praises that please and desire yajna call on Som in the yajna. 
O Subandhu! Air flows downwards from the deulok and the sun heats down. Just as cow's milk is milked downwards, so your sin falls below you. 
Grow to gain strength and joy by praising the Vrithrahita Indra Ritwijs. We call them into wars big and small. They protect us in war. 
May the Sun, Aditi, the deities worthy of the yagna and varuna with no violence protect us. You all remove the degenerating deeds of our path. May our house be full of animals and children. 
Agni, called by Divodas, did not bear the vow for the gods in the yagna in front of Mother Earth, because Divodas had called agni by force. The agni remained at the highest place of heaven. 
It is far better to perform one’s natural prescribed duty, though tinged with faults, than to perform another’s prescribed duty, though perfectly. In fact, it is preferable to die in the discharge of one’s duty, than to follow the path of another, which is fraught with danger.
This desireful Rudrao! Let us not anger you by insulting salutations, unbecoming praises and invocations with other gods against the law. Make our sons the best by your medicines. We have heard that you are the best of the physicians. 
Medicines are like parents and endowed with divine qualities. We keep saying about their qualities. O sacrificial man! Consume horses, cows and spiritual pleasures derived from you. (78)
O Indra! You have made the earth visible to the sun and you have made the path of the rivers transmissible. O the conqueror Indra! Just as they satisfy the horse with water, so the Psalms increase you with praises. You are worthy of praise. 
 O Indra! You are going to do hundreds of jobs. You give us a lot of happy wealth and strong food. You are going to make us happy. O Indra! Give us happiness. 
Oh, the cars! I place the five instruments of the yajna above you, use four verses regularly, complete the yajna by uttering om and purify the somras on the navel of the yajna. 
The Kshatriya who kidnaps this type of cow of the Brahmin and makes the Brahmin unhappy, his Lakshmi, Shakti and beloved speech are lost. (5)
We bind enemies through a special loop machine named input and through a loop machine called Sandhan. I completely destroy the life and air of these enemies through my life. (1)
The enemies who curse those who do not curse us through harsh words and those who curse us curse, we throw them both before death, as if bread is poured in front of a dog. (3)
Due to the destruction of demons due to sunrise, at this time our cows are sitting fearlessly in the cowshed and the animals of the forest are also located fearlessly in their place. The wave of rivers is rising happily. Subjects that are not visible at night can be seen completely in sunlight. (2)
People have many doubts about Indra, who destroys enemies. Indra completely destroys the armies that protect the enemies. O men! Believe in that Indra and be reverential to him. Apart from Indra, who could have conquered enemies like Vritrasura etc. They are indra enemy conquerors. (5)
Our enemies who are wearing armor or who are without armor, our enemies who are sitting in the chariot, they should sleep tied to their loops. (22)
 O Indra! We call upon you to get food. We call on you for your sustenance. Let us be Suman 
The ten fingers separate from each other and please the blazing fire and the hosts whom we call upon to protect us scatter the fire sparks in the same way as the arrows are released from the bow. The fire revolves around and holds the new praises of the hosts. 
If the stolen cow of a Brahmin gives milk, then its milk and meat are like poison and it causes the life of the stealer to be in danger. (4)
May Indra, with maruts, protect me in the north direction. They should protect me in the act of keeping my foot and instead of keeping my foot. Let them protect me and serve my interests in the city where I go. I surrender to Indra. May Indra receive this. (8)
Red animals like red, smoke-like red, ripe fruits are related to SOM. Brown red, brown venus-like green is related to Varun Dev. Animals with white holes somewhere and white holes on one side are related to Savita Dev. Somewhere, animals with white arms are completely white-armed belong to Jupiter. Friends with small rashes and big chakkattas are related to Dev and Varun Dev. (2)
O water! Take away from me all the sins that I have sinned, the treachery I have committed, the downfall that I have committed, or the lies I have told. 
O Indra! This unshadowed wealth is yours. You are the master of medium wealth. You are the king of all the best wealth. It is true that nothing can stop you from donating about cow. 
O agni! Just as you desire a calf by day, so the hosts want you night and day. O beloved! You are patiently pervaded heaven, dwelling in the sacrifices of men and being illuminated at night. 
The Saraswati, which is permeated in the three lokas, the Ganga, etc., has seven relatives and extends the five-classes, is worthy of being called in every war. 
O agni! You remove obstacles in the path of truth. They keep the world subjugated. By your grace, the world expands. You create seasons. 
O Indra, lord of many riches! We hold your right hand with the desire for wealth. O Shur Indra! We know you the lord of many cows. You give us annual and strange money. 
The great and powerful Indra who consumes and desires our human food is the master of wealth. Indra, who comes by force wearing the vajra, accepts havya, anna, stuti group, somras and uwatha. 
Som Dev! You are eclipsed in the theorem. For the glory of Ashwinikumar, let us establish you for the might of Saraswati Devi. Hold semen for us. (8)
 O Indra! In the form of the sun, your rays adorn with you. Those rays drink delicious sweet somers. Those rays adorn in Swarajya. 
Indra makes his devotee challenged for war by the enemies capable of destroying the enemy by equipping him with qualities like bravery etc. and provides weapons to kill him. Indra, the best leader of human beings and born for us, becomes revered and penetrates the cities in battle. 
When the rays are similar to the cows drinking water, then milk is brewed from the annes of the cows. O Ashchini Kumaro! At that time, the voice of the sages praises you. (4)
It would be better to live in this world by begging, than to enjoy life by killing these noble elders, who are my teachers. If we kill them, the wealth and pleasures we enjoy will be tainted with blood.
With purified water, we become free from sin in the same way as we are freed from sweat and scum as soon as we bathe. Just as the ghee from the sieve becomes dirtless, you filter our sins. (20)
 O gods! You put humans on the path of progress. Aryama, Mitra and Varun remove the miscreants. By your grace, man stays away from sins. By your grace, human beings are not spoiled. 
 Indra is a friend of the young and the host. Hosts ignite agni. The hosts lay the seats of Kush for the gods. 
I salute the great and luminous Sun, earth, sky, Mitra, Varuna and Rudra, the giver of desired fruits and happiness. Hey Hotas! Praise Indra, Agni, Brilliant Aryama and Bhaga at this time. By his grace we will be surrounded by worship and protected by somrus. 
O son of strength, agni! Be illuminated by your light and give the faithful sons who hear praise and give them much wealthy food, health and fearlessness. O agni, the sacrificor! We'll sew your body over and over again. 
O Indra and Air! Sit on a chariot with golden asanas, adorned with yajna-lacuna and touching heaven. 
O you who drive away the violent, follow the gentlemen, the unbeatable, the great, the masters, the givers of adornment, the young adornments, the all-encompassing and the leaders of heaven, Adityas! I go to the shelter of Aditi, who takes care of me. 
Agni, air and sun are going to move in the best way. Air and parajanya do the same terms as cloud. All of them reside in Vishtapa above heaven. This heaven, which is obtained from its deeds, is endowed with nectar. This heaven is going to give the desired food and juice to the ghost who performs the ritual of yajna karma. (4)
Rudra can be known by the splendor who lives in heaven and earth. Hey Rudra! Our people praise you. You protect them, come to our house and make him diseaseless. 
The deserters who were brought by fast horses listen to a variety of praises here while drinking the madman somras. 
We return your mind that has gone to the distant sea filled with water. You live to inhabit this world. 
O O O O Son! You are going to rain fruit. You go to the gods and throw your skin like smoke. You are worshiped in many ways and become of equal origin and this man should get this man in heaven. (53)
O you nightmare God who has taken over my mind! You move from here, run away and walk away. O remote sin god! You must say in a judgment that the desires of a living person are many. 
There is a law of season for those who call rain, rats for ancestors, moles and lizards, pythons for Baldev, kapinjals for Vasus and pigeons, owls and rabbits for Nirti Dev. Wild mesh has been prescribed for Barun. (38)
We perform yajna to protect ourselves for the purpose of the mother who follows the truth and yajna to the mother with great and shobhan karma. We call Dev Mata Aditi, who is more powerful and powerful, without destruction, going far, happy and happy with good deeds, to protect ourselves. (2)
O great Indra! Those who are different from us, that is, your devotees, those who are not united with you and do not perform yajnakarma, i.e., yajna, are not your human beings. O Indra who takes the vaz in his hand! You yourself drive the chariot to come to our yagna. 
The hymns quickly fulfill their desires by pronouncing the effective Marutstotra towards the Maruts. Those who are three-sided, dynamic and great, the host who holds the same fierce-hearted people is freed from anger. 
O horse! I make you unafraid of attacking the enemy army and with the heart of the horse born in the beginning of creation. Be proud of the firmness of the body, quick movement and strength to defeat the enemy army. Just as the flow of the stream runs by destroying the shores, so you are also ready for war. I can get the fruits of my mind from this type of horse. O horse! You rush towards the winnable spot. (1)
 O Indra! By spreading the clouds in space, you increased the earth with rain etc. The sacrifices of us hosts have increased your fame. 
 O agni! You make us stunning. You give us glory. We can control the wicked who obstruct the yajna. can despise them. You correct the intellect of people with bad sense. You remove their anger. 
The bones that form lumps and which are absorbed with marrow i.e. fat, do not harm you and leave your body while remaining healthy. (18)
O the greatest of all, the best of those who give food, the one who gives food to the hymns and the lord of shobhandhan, Aschinikumaro! You go to the house of the payer. 
Yami said- I'm sorry you're so weak. I don't understand your mind. Just as the rope binds the horse and the creeper is wrapped around the tree, the other woman hugs you. 
I salute the eldest man whose life and apana and angiras whose eyes were made and the directions who made the instrument of his wisdom. (34)
Rishabh created the form of the senses. Increased force in the ears. He created the ears with hearing power, the hair of the eyebrows was produced from barley and kusha. (91)
Hey Mon! May we be happy to aim at you, who are the eternal victors in war, the conquerors of armies, the givers of heaven, the water yearners, the protectors of force, those who are possessed in yajna, those who are beautiful in residence, those of excellent success and those who are the losers of enemies. 
Aditi's sons Dev, Rudra and Vasu should accept this new hymn made by us. May the divine earthly, that is, human animals, trees, etc., the god of the name Marut born from the earth and the god worthy of sacrifice protect us. (4)
I annoy vampires with the power of mantras in the same way as a tiger hurts the owners of cows. Just as the dog hides from fear by looking at the lion, so with the effect of my mantras, they get degradation. (6)
 Indra cut off Vritrasura's head with hundreds of sharp vajra with his power. Vritrasura had frightened the world. 
Three to half year old calf, three-year-old heifer, two-year-old calf, heifer, two-and-a-half-year-old calf and heifer from the yajna. Three-year-old bull and cow should be helpful from the yajna. Three and a half years old bull and cow should be helpful from the yajna. May yajna all come to fruition for us. (26)
O ukha! You are the emperor, self-published, saraswatimay and nurturer. You delight in food, fame, courage and energy. You also make our sons and grandsons happy in it. (35)
The mantra by which the devas do not become different thinking and do not hate each other, I use the same mantra to establish consensus in your house. (4)
The devas had made Indra, who had performed consciousness in the yagna named Trikadruk, eligible for the yajna. Increase our praises to the ever-growing Indra. 
O Charioteeswami Ashwinikumaro! Your chariot walks along the path with the help of horses covering the radiances. O Ashwinikumaro! When it is morning, come to our yagna by that chariot for the mitigation of our sins and to attain happiness. 
Agni, sun, moon and air cannot match Cupid. That's why, O Cupid! You are the eldest of all and pervading the whole world. I salute you. (24)
O sun! It's true that you're great. Hey Aditya! You're great, that's the truth. You are great so the Psalms praise your glory. O glorious sun! You're great, that's the truth. 
While performing the yajna, the vasus had rescued the cow tied to the feet. O agni! In the same way redeem us from sin and give us a better and greater life. 
Both sawan and bhadon months are related to the rainy season. You are connected within the agni. May heaven come to fruition for us. For us, let the earth be a pod ghost. May water come to fruition for us. Let the medicines come to fruition for us. O god! You are bright, holy, summer-like and connected within the agni. You can extend to heaven. Please imagine you to the land of earth. The medicines should come to fruition. Let the agnis of water come to fruition. Please inspire the agnis including Brat to jyeshtha (Badappan). May the agnis that are within us with the same mind be pleased to adorn heaven and earth. While bringing the summer season to fruition from both sides, be adorned in the gods like Indra Dev. Please sit still like an angira with your divinity. (15)
 Ten fingers muscles and squeeze somers. It's powerful. It makes a sound and runs and reaches Dronakalsh. 
Arjun said: O Madhusudan, how can I shoot arrows in battle on men like Bheeshma and Dronacharya, who are worthy of my worship, O destroyer of enemies?
Remove, remove sin. You remove our sins. Remove the harmful deeds away from us. You remove nightmares away from us (our lives). (11)
Aj, cooked as Panchaudan, establishes in heaven and obstructs Nirti, the goddess of sin. May we conquer the sun-rich worlds through this wealth of aj. (18)
O agni! Surya is brought close to you first by wearing a sheet. You give the wife to the husband with the children. 
Just as the chariot of the shur enters the armies, the chariot of the devotee of the gods quickly goes into the inaccessible path. The host who worships the gods in his will defeats the one who does not perform the yajna. 
When has indra's great power not become hostile? When was Indra's wadhya unprogrammed? Indra defeats all the sud-eaters, the day-counting karma-less and the panais by tadun etc. 
May the horse being sacrificed give us money and children to protect the son, the grandson, wife, etc., rich in cows and horses. O stunning horse! Make us sinless and give us the power and strength. 
Mars is done through usha kaal and night. Let me be the one who uses all the ganas and waters. (6)
O Indra, undefeated by the enemies! You have created these many realms by your personal power. O thunderbolt Indra! Whatever you do by defeating the enemies quickly, no one can do more of your work. 
We climb from earth to higher space. We climb from the higher space world to heaven. They receive the light of the sun from heaven. (67)
The chariot of friend and Varuna is made of gold. His pillars are also gold. He shines like lightning in the sky. We install somras on top of the chariot in the yajnabhoomi adorned with ghrit, som etc. 
O sun! You are all seekers and evil-doers. Just as you see this world nourishing beings through light, we praise the same light. 
O aschinikumaro! You go with Angira, Vishnu and maruts to hear the call of the hymn. You come with Usha, Surya and Adityas. 
 Pure somers has been removed. It is being filled in the urn. This wish-fulfilling Someras is offered to Indra. 
The one who does not donate that vasha on demand, he is caught by durdamna i.e. the condition that is not subdued. Whoever wants to keep it with himself, his wishes are not fulfilled. (19)
O agni that performs yajnakarma! My praises come to you in the same way that rivers approach the sea. 
O Indra! You drink mon by being pleased with Varun. O praiseworthy Indra, you are pleased with the Maruts and drink the mon. First of all, you drink som with the ritupalak devas who drink somras, the devas wives and the gems-giving gods. 
May the goddesses of the five principal directions and the swami of twelve months who are gods and independently the molars of Prajapati i.e. Paksha, Week etc., free us from sin. (22)
Oh, God! We don't forget anything in your deeds. We don't feel sad about any of your work. We walk according to the mantra and the shruti and complete the yajna with the yajna material in both hands. 
I behave according to Brahmins. May those Brahmins give me wealth and brahm radiance. (41)
He is worthy of praises and greetings. Those who shower wishes and are visible. Agni ignites, skewing its smoke. (1)
The Angiras, knowing the cows stolen by the pangs after sunrise, looked at the cows from behind and found the gorup wealth given by the devas. All the gods came to all the houses of the Angiras. O enemies and agnis that destroy the diseases of Varuna! May the host bear the truth. 
Let us serve the beginnings and our fellow descendants of many gods through yajnas, greetings and salutations. I beautify their advanced place well, wear them with food and wood, and praise them with mantras. 
O Indra! The violent, medieval and resting forces were scattered in fear even before the thunderbolt struck. Indra had made the way easier for the water to be drained. The beautiful and worded water came before Puruhut Indra. 
O Indra! At the time when you wear a thunderbolt in your arms that destroys the pride of The Shru and kills the cloud, and at the time when the cloud and the water that is filled with them roars, the stotas go near Indra and praise him. 
Yama replied- Your companion Yama does not want such friendship with you. You are not worthy of this relationship because you are a sister. The son of the great and mighty Prajapati, the heaven-bearer, i.e. God is watching.
The violent men who are created by the gods and those who are motivated by human beings etc. should be made powerless by the warriors, the jewel of war. (5)
That supreme principle is the shelter of all gods. Everyone attains that supreme principle. That supreme body first wore water in his womb. In the navel of the Supreme Being, there is only one Supreme Element, in which all the bhuvanas are stable. (30)
O milk! You are going to give courage to the roaring cows, to the rich and to the army. You are the doer of welfare and know the best men. In the midst of the war of these two kings, give glory to many heroes. (9)
Oh my friend and Varun! You hold on to us strength and enough food because of your praises. You provide us with food, wealth and welfare. 
O teacher! The agni has come. You give them a quick note. Those who know how to give a greeting serve the adhwaryu yajna again. 
The sky, space and earth get brahmins to these three worlds. O husband and wife! You start bursting the rice. This paddy should be received by the tossing soup. (20)
When the arny is churned with the hands, the agni in the woods is adorned at such a rapid pace, just as the fast-moving horse or the multi-colored chariot of the Ashchinikumars adorns. The unhindered agni proceeds by burning stones and straws. 
O agni of praise! We praise you, who are desirous of the joyful heart and the godly ones. O glorious agni! You, having been illuminated by the great glory, bring us hymns to heaven. 
O Indra Dev! You are the master of glorious gentlemen. Where do you go alone? Why do you go like this? Going well, you are asked this question. Your horses are green. You are energetic. You never indulge in violence etc. You are our well-wisher and yours. That's why we are asking you all this. (27)
Hey Mon! You protect us from the beloved actions of other demons who pierce the body. 
O thunderbolt Indra! When you do singal, all the real and movable tremble and the weighty skin is also frightened of your wrath. This is how you show your authority. 
Prana, Apana and similar forms irrigate the earth with medicines and get the innumerable water entered by the animals with the golden color, giving purity. (28)
Those who are patient, mystic and learned men, they say that the oz of this bull is the part of Indra, its arms i.e. feet are parts of Varuna, its shoulder is part of Ashwinikumaras and its that is part of maruts. It is part of Jupiter. (8)
May Usha Devi, all the deities and immortal gods with great and superior form, bless us with strength and age. May the cow, which carries the burden of nutrition, be kind to us to have strength and life. (17)
The yagyas with four nights, five nights, six nights and two nights, sixteen nights, somayag with seven nights and the fruits of nectar, all of them have originated from Brahm in the form of Uchishta i.e. Yajnashesh. (11)
 O Indra! You illuminate swarglok and earthland through Usha. You are a great and emperor. Aditi, who gave birth to gods, has given birth to you. 
O Indra and Varun Devo! Give us the money that you give to the host who gives the hawais, the money that you give with wealth and multiple food, the same money that will eliminate the failure of enemies. 
O host! This yajna named Brahmaodanasava performed by you is a thousand-bodied, full of nectar-filled hundred streams, delivering to the gods and attaining heaven in the form of a moment. It never ends even when brahmodan is eaten. O Brahmaudana! I make my homogeneous men stand before you. They became inferior to me as sons, servants, etc. subjects. All these sacrifices only make you happy and good. (20)
I describe the true and elaborate yajna of The Balvan, the Great and the True Resolution Indra. Inder drank somras in the Trikadruk yajna and destroyed the Vritra Asura when it became an item. 
 O Indra! Your horses are peacock-like colors and white-backed. May they please bring you to the yajna place, so that you can drink someras like sweet nectar. 
 O Indra! You give rich hosts and me a happy welfare three-storey house in all three seasons. We do not have to use weapons to get them. 
May Suryawife Usha be equipped with powerful semen and May Suryadev endow her with excellent semen. May this mantra of mine also be powerful and prajapati dev, the creator of the world, should also upgrade it with his strength semen. (2)
Ashch is riding in the pit of the cow's hoof. (18)
Soma is the protector of the gods, the destroyer of sinners, the indestructible and the divine and he sits in the kalash. 
The anghi pakva odan form charu containing the wheat and the malpua containing six juices remained located in the western part of the bones in this work. We please the present gods here, the officials of this havi, among the gods like Indra, who created heaven for the ghost for which this rite is being done. (23)
At the time when the group of camels was going to the forest, Prithushrava had called me to give me a hundred camels and he had also brought twenty thousand cows to give it to me. 
Praise the fire with three heads, the seven-rashmis, the one sitting in the lap of your parents and without distractions. The bright planes from heaven are surrounded by fire to see the brightness of the fire without playfulness, able to go everywhere and light. 
The words by which the glorious agni of the visible agni for the sake of great food and wealth are the same words as ours may increase the praise agni. 
O friend and Varun Devo! I will try to convey my greetings to you with a hymn of greetings for the sake of my protection. May this sacrificial act of ours defeat the enemies in the war and may the divine rain save us. 
Wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go with the help of initiation and penance, the Sun God should take me there. May The Sun God give me an eye. This sacrifice was well received by the Sun God. (3)
 O Indra! You are courageous, strong and willful. You are adorned with people who want the good of the people and are adorned with ashchas. You become happy as soon as you drink someras. We appreciate your appearance. 
 O Ritvijo 
O Indra! Many men call you to get your protection. This hymn of ours is also going to increase you. (3)
O Desert, Vishnu, Ashwini Kumar and Pusha! Come to the yagna as soon as you hear my praise. Indra, the eldest among the gods, also come. The stota kampoor praises Indra as vrithrahanta. 
Just as thieves run away as soon as the night passes, so the stars run away from the sky as soon as the sun rises. (14)
O ghost! Your smoke takes the form of a cloud and covers the space. You are illuminated like the sun because of praise. (59)
I have spent many years in this yagnasthan. I leave my father Arani here, selecting Indra. When I go into hiding, Agni, Som and Varuna fall and chaos spreads in the nation. Then I come and protect from the asuras. 
Intelligent Indra goes to the desired place with the help of horses. The Shur Indra leaders kill Vrithra with the help of the Maruts. They are the true protectors of their host. 
O Indra! The hosts have been satisfied by eating the food you have given and have made their bodies tremble to bring happiness. The bright bright bright vipers have praised you with new hymns, so add the horses of your hari name to the chariot. 
When this horse, which is as fast as air, receives the beloved water of Indra Dev, then the hosts should return that horse for themselves in the same way. (7)
 O hosts! Give someras to Indra, who is pleased with the sweet someras. They are heroic, worthy of praise. They always grow. 
These three paridhis are offered to the Basuganas, Rudraganas and Adityaganas. Friends and Varuna should be pleased to protect them from the rain of heaven and earthland. Please eat the havi with bird ghee and follow the deserts. Please imitate the reach of heaven like rays. Fire is the protector of our yajna and our eyes. May they protect our eyes by sacrificing our yajna. (16)
Oh, my godly pitho! Come to us with welfare protection means and give us happiness. Be a dear juice friend and a unique comforter to us. 
O Indra and Air! Those who give us happiness with wealth such as villages, horses, dwelling places and gold, etc., are the ones who win the food everywhere to help horses and brave men in the donor war. 
May I have the fame in the Himalayan mountains, the fame in the kings who sit in the chariot, in gold and in the cows. May I get the sweet juice-like fame in the wine and food molded in the characters. (1)
O ghost! When we see you moving towards heaven at the best speed, we see you as a bird and filler in the house of Yamraj, the messenger of Varuna with golden wings. (66)
O Indra! You are opulent. Just as you are the best among the gods and the master of wealth, so should I also become the master of wealth. Just as the one who praises you becomes a friend of cows, so should anyone who praises me also get wealth like cow etc. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! Kill those who come to kill us with a bad barking like a dog or want to fight us. Make every word of him who praises you a success. O nastyo! Protect my praise. 
O Daksha! Your daughter Aditi created the gods. After Aditi, the brothers of admirable and nectar were born devas. 
They have reached Indra Udayachal in the form of the sun. He has covered all beings with his rays by giving darshan in the east direction. For this, they have dragged heaven and space from rainwater and pervaded it. Rainwater is like nectar. Indra is called cow because of milking it. (4)
 O agni! The host performs havan well. They are dear to you. Those who give money and take care of the people should also be dear to you. Those who follow cows should be dear to you. 
O Indra! In that battle, you stole the wheel of the sun's chariot for the fighting dogs and his helpers. 
The ancestors illuminate the agni without death, that is, the immortal and the one who loves ghee and carries the desires. They know the ancestors who have gone away from the agni. (41)
The land and heaven possessed by God are located in their place. Those who breathe and those who blink are all pervaded in god like the soul. (2)
Establish the dynamic power of Kalika Mata in the house where the best and ordinary creatures were reared and in the house where they were protected by food. In this way, that house will be full of wonderful things. (6)
O poet, deathless, human-bearing and famous Angira Agni! Just as mothers give birth to children, so the gods have created you. 
 O Indra! You are going to wear thunderbolts. The hosts who performed the yajna have presented you with Someras even today and before. You come to the Yagya Mandap. Listen to the psalms of the hosts who read the psalms. 
 O Mon! You are pure and good virtuous. You connect us with Indra. Please please make us get the money we want from them. 
I salute the cold fever. I salute the rising and mournful fever after the cold. I salute the fever that comes every day on the second day and the third day. (4)
On hearing the praises of the Angiravanshi sages, Indra killed the force asura and opened the fortified door of the mountain. Indra eliminated the artificial barrier of the mountains. All this was done in the item of somras. 
 O Indra! Your horses are alluring. Their hair is like peacock feathers. Please come to the yagna with those horses. The hunters cannot spread the net in your path, so you take them to the desert. 
O agni! I do havan of beautiful hymns like ghee in your mouth. You know our praise for the gods. You are an elder, pleasant and angel. Let the agni do violence to all the enemies. 
O you of food and wealth and lord of udak, Ashwinikumaro, may your gracious eyes come together to me. May my mind's desires be fulfilled. You be my protector. I go to my husband's house and be his beloved. 
The one who conducts friendship by becoming a companion of those fearful and divine waters is called a swan. The scholars praise Indra, who goes after the water praises praise him through praiseworthy and frequent water mantras. 
O workman Rudra! May we find your grace through godly and deserted allies. Come near to our people, wishing for their happiness. Seeing the people harmless, we will give you a good deed. 
Well-situated, water-rained and golden-colored electricity remains like a cloud with maruts, the wife of a prince living in a hidden place or a sacrificial voice. 
O agni! Please make us wise with the superior wisdom that the gods and ancestors worship. Swaha for agni. (14)
With the force of your intellect, you want to set up the agni that destroys sorrow to fulfill the host's mind. Would later be accepted by speaking praises of agni. 
O Indra! As soon as you were born, you fixed your mind and went to war with countless monsters alone. You broke the mountain that hid the cows by your power and found the milch cows. 
May the present Agni God sanctify me as a gastritis in all beings. While moving in the middle of the body, may vayu dev purify me through breathing. May he, the vayu dev, go to space and sanctify me through the new territories. May the earth, full of essence, capable of completing yajna and full of truth, sanctify me through the essence of water juice. (1)
O Brave Indra! Assume the strength by which you crushed the son of Danuputra Vritra like a spider. You opened the light to the Aryans and the bandits were persecuted by you. 
Those who sit here and those who are not here, the fathers we know and whom we do not know, O omniscient agni! You know them. You should edit this yajna well. (67)
These agnis originated from Aranimanthan today itself. The somras squeezers want to take them elsewhere. The sharply covered agni drinks somras like the milk of the earth. The eternal young agni receives the praise from the havyas. For this, the agni has become angerless, money-giver and a heroic. 
When those suns merge the rays with their glory, then people also combine all their work spread. At that time, the earth wears clothes covering the darkness from all sides. (1)
The Blessed Lord said: The Supreme Indestructible Entity is called Brahman; one’s own self is called adhyātma. Actions pertaining to the material personality of living beings, and its development are called karma, or fruitive activities.
O Brahmaspati! By gaining growth through you, we may receive the desired wealth from other human beings. Destroy the unspoken people who defeat us by staying near or far away from us. 
Just as man looks at the well, indra, surrounded by praises, looks at us graciously and after seeing it, he makes the host of somras his friend. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
Hey go! You cook this oven. If you go before your husband, you both will meet in heaven. You both live in one world and this odan should also be with you there. (39)
The substances brought by killing the enemies and the substances brought by victory are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He could not get rid of the trap of months. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (22)
Bulls and farmers plough happily. Plough the earth happily. Ropes should be tied happily. O Shunah i.e. Vayu Dev! You should gladly inspire the whip used to drive the bulls. (6)
Agni takes a big flag and goes between Dyava-Prithvivi and says words like a bull to call the gods. Agni pervades it by staying away from or near both lokas and the water reserves grow as electricity in space. 
Protect our home with Indra Vasus. May Aditi do us well with the devas. May Rudradev make us happy with the maruts. May the tattva please us with your wives for abhyudaya. 
Jupiter from the west direction, from the north direction and from the lower place protect me from the man who commits violence. May Indra protect us from the east direction and from the middle space. Indra, who has become friends, should we provide more money for the psalms. (1)
Hey Ritvijo! You please the present agni in front of you and the best of the revolutionaries. Let us please them with sweet som and dhrit. They give us good, good and happy gold. 
O Indra! Drink the somras brought by Vajrup-Dharini Gayatri and squeezed by us happily for drunkenness. You are the nurturers of all the deserts and the brightest of your own. 
The bright and invoking the gods should bring the gods who wake up in the morning in the yagna here from the illuminated sun-mandala. 
I call agni first to protect myself. I call friends and Varun here to protect myself. I call all the creatures of the world to the resting night. I call Savita to protect myself. 
Just as the one who steals the animal hides in the cave with the animals and the people reach out to him, seeing the markings of his feet, so the bright and equally beautiful gods have reached you with the help of your footprints. All the gods came near you, so you yourself should eat the havan and take it for the other gods also. 
The downwards that know the period are called upwards and the upward faces are called downwards. Hey Mon! The circles that you have made with Indra carry the burden of the world in the same way as the horse that is ploughed in gambling. 
We should not go in front of Rudra, who has a thousand eyes, a revolutionary, an arrow-wielding in front, meritorious and who pervades the whole world with the front of his tongue for food. (17)
This gem made from the varan tree is the medicine of all diseases. This gem is shaktishalini, green and hiranyamaya like indra with thousand eyes. Before this gem kills your enemies, you destroy them. (3)
O agni! You give money to the man who gives the havya with many brave sons, so give us the money to be given the dwelling place. 
O agni! May our path be smooth and complete with food. O Gods! Irrigate the herbs with sweet water. O agni! Do not waste our money by getting your friendship. Let us get the place of wealth and rich food. 
O Arjun, rajo guṇa is of the nature of passion. It arises from worldly desires and affections, and binds the soul through attachment to fruitive actions.
Hey Mon! You are a host. You are strange and satisfying to the gods. You are easily possessed for our cows. 
O the perfect earth and sky trembling to produce water! Both of you produce the water mentioned earlier. That water remains new in the present period, that is, even after the rain water is exhausted, the water in the sky does not end in the same way that the streams found in the ocean never dry up. (3)
Marudgans are powerful and fast horses. Aditi Devi is the mother of Marudgan. Marudgan is for the welfare of all. The tongue in the form of agni and the eyes of the sun are shining. May they please take all the gods along for us and come here for the yagna. (20)
Oh my friend! Happy because of the healthy and the food, we kneel down in a wide part of the earth and live near Aditya's yajna by walking according to the will. Let us be in aditya's grace. 
Just as a cow once married gives birth to a calf, Aditi gave birth to a lustful and invincible Indra of her own free will. They are more stateful, forceful, inspiring and willing to move the body. 
O Indra! We call you the Lord. You are the giver of yajnakarma and food. You save us by your bizarre defense powers. O workman Indra! Make us the ultimate wealthy. 
Those who were the forces of The Desert Indra, they had inspired Indra by speaking sweet words. No one knows my essence, the maruts told Indra the secret of Vritra, who understands so. 
O glorious agni! The ancient hosts used to perform yajna in the ushakaal, making you the messenger of the gods. O agni! After the havan has been gathered, you become bright and are ignited by the humans who give the abode. 
O furious Indra! Drink the somras for which you discovered the cows stolen by the pangs for the purpose of the Somras, when you heard the praises of the Angiragotrian sages. O Indra, the one who is in his hand and the destroyer of enemies! You killed all the enemies by your powers. 
O king! The water that rains from the sky, with its juice, satisfies the creatures, the water that is located in space and on earth, I anoint you with these waters located in the three worlds. (5)
Which cow is that? Who is a sage? Their place is vaya and what is the blessings. Only a circle and a season are revered on earth. Is he a keen? (25)
The substances brought by dividing the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, people and all heroic men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and a woman with such a name from this world. He could not get rid of the earth's loop. We wrap up his brilliance, strength, life and age and drop him face to face. (26)
These are the agnis that the stota grows in his house at the time of yajna. The radiant agnis go everywhere with the admirable radiances of the sun rays. 
Let our adversarial air move away from the forest moving at a devious pace. O infinite rich Indra! Make us rich with beautiful and countless cows and horses. 
Which is the radiance of shining in the water without fuel, which is the wisdom form of the dwijas of sacrifices, which is sweetness in the waters and semen in men; May the householder be filled with this radiance, knowledge, sweetness and semen. Indra has become the greatest of them. (37)
O Ashwinikumaro! Protect it with the same sharp eye, which gains place in property and what is in fast cows. (35)
The asang king who gave me the moving wealth, including the golden-plated charmastran, the chariot that used to say asang, conquer all the properties of the Shanrus. 
The strong asuras had tied the sage Atri like a horse. You had opened the atri tied like a strong knot. They went to earth like a young man. 
O Rudra! You are three enemies. We worship you. You are going to spread fragrance in life and increase nutrition. Give us protection. Let us be separated from worldly bonds, like fruit separated from trees; But not with immortality. (60)
 O Mon! You are holy. You are the giver of fruits in the yajna. Hosts enhance you with praises. Please increase us. 
O nymphs. Where the swings are lying for you to play, the color of those swings is green and white. Run away from where the instruments named Karkari are played and go to your place of residence and stay there. (5)
O agni that gives riches! You give sovereignty to everyone. You are the son of waters. We choose the illuminated agni. (4)
Understand both creation and destruction together. Nectar is obtained by floating death from destruction and by creation. (11)
 O Mon! You are stunning. Please give us the money desired by hundreds of people. With the money you give, we can be able to sustain thousands of people. Please make us stunning and successful. 
The vehicle that carries the dead through which the creatures travel in this world is both ancient and new. O ghost! Through this your former men were carried. May the two bulls added on either side of it get you the world of pious. (44)
 O Indra! Friends and Varun give us energetic wealth. Please make our food more nutritious. 
O Mon! You have been eclipsed in the urn. You have been eclipsed from the urn for honey. You have been accepted for Madhav. You have been eclipsed to Venus. O Mon! You have been accepted for purity. You have been assumed to be good. You have been absorbed for energy. O Mon! You have been eclipsed for courage. O Mon! You have been embraced with courage. O Mon! You have been eclipsed for tenacity. O Mon! You have been accepted for dignity. (30)
This creation created by Vidhata was created one by one. Here the sages, who created elements like earth, produced cows, humans and horses of many colors. In this creation of origin, if a cow gives birth to twin children born from inferior raja and semen, it destroys the host's animals like cows, etc. by eating them and committing violence by thieves, tigers, etc. (1)
With the radiance of Udumbar Mani and by the grace of Jupiter and Savita, may I accept the abundance of two-legged humans, four-legged animals and wheat, barley, etc., may these gods give me animal milk and medicinal juices. (5)
You are the stone of sages. I salute your god-form stone. (6)
O Pitro! The mortal undeserved monism that has entered the hearts of us human beings when we drink the undeterred som, we will serve the same Som and his grace will be in sight. 
O Lord of food and wealth, Ashwinikumaro! Sit on this chariot and come from a distance. You come close to our adornment. 
The agni said to himself, "O Visves. You have chosen me as would have. Tell me the mantras I have to sit here and read. Tell me which part of me and yours is. Tell me the way in which I may take you. 
O men! You protect the yajna and its means. The evil demons have been destroyed. Other disorders are also eliminated. Now please go to space (without hindrance) the objects reaching space etc. (7)
O Bajin (consciousness energy)! You roam the earth fast. You don't want agni (don't wish). Please let us know by you to be published and dig up the land. So that we can also dig it (energy materials). (19)
O Arjun, tamo guṇa, which is born of ignorance, is the cause of illusion for the embodied souls. It deludes all living beings through negligence, laziness, and sleep.
 O Pusha! Your bright colored day is different. In the same way, the night with black color is different. These different colored parts from your glory are of the same day and night. You are the nurturer. You are going to protect the whole world. You are a welfare doer. You do us welfare. 
Indra's charioteers add horses to his chariot. They live on either side of the horse chariot. They are able to wish horses and carry Indra. (5)
O agni of those who call the gods and the people of the people of choice! We beseech you through samidha and salutations. 
Sheep exerted strength in the nostrils of ultimate power. From the planets, the nectar-filled souls got the way to breathe. Saraswati revealed Vyan with a vowel. Grow the lumps outside the feet. (90)
We pray for protection from the God of the mountain, the deserts and the Bhaga. May Lord Varuna protect us from human-related sin. Friends, protect us as friends. 
O Indra! May the horses attached in the chariot accelerate your importance and bear it well. 
We praise the god named Stota, who wishes for his wife and son and is blessed with charity. 
What are the limits, the knowledge of matter and the delightful objects of the east, etc.? Let us get them in the same way as a horse running fast reaches the battlefield. When will the lighted, the dying, the sun-abiding and giving birth surround us with their light? 
Fire becomes the idol of all beings at night and becomes the sun in the morning. Agni is called the wisdom of the yajna-editor gods and they walk quickly in all places knowing everyone. 
O Indra! It will get the money that is destroyed by the testicles. He should get the new charu and wooden cart, the site of sword slaughter. Indra is the best. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! You give us all the strength of the kings named Trikhu, Drhumu and Puru. In this way, we will be able to conquer the enemies when the war starts. 
O agni! Sit with all these gods on one chariot or on different chariots and come before us. Your horses are powerful. Bring thirty-three gods, including wives, here to receive food and please them through somers. 
O descendent of the Kurus, the intellect of those who are on this path is resolute, and their aim is one-pointed. But the intellect of those who are irresolute is many-branched.
 O Mon! Many people want you. You are a varenya, Brahmin, mystic and protector. We worship you. 
Indra, who is going to take the shape of mortal human beings, O Stotao! Praise them. You cannot fully describe the glory of Indra and will be able to sing a little, this will also give you heaven. (1)
Hey Mon! You be our messenger. You're to drink indra's. You ask the gods for the riches dear to us. 
O Jupiter! The horses that come to your yajna come from heaven, the highest place. Just as streams come out from all sides in a dug well, so make you wet with someras eulogies squeezed with the help of stones. 
Both the children i.e. the sun and the moon rotate in the east and west with their power. Come to the yagna while playing. The first of these i.e. the sun sees all the people and the second i.e. the moon is born again and again, creating spring, etc. 
 O Indra! Just as small ponds feed the serious sea by giving more water, you fulfill the wishes of the host and nurture them. Just as cowherds feed cows by putting grass fodder, the hosts offer someras to Indra and nurture them. 
May the host be superior to the agni and may heavenly happiness. Be adorned with your hands. Go to the divine world with the gods and experience heavenly happiness. (65)
The water-destroyer, the dripping of water, the one who works for the cause of water, the deity form, giving us yajna, wealth, great-fame, food and adornment, may the earth irrigate us with honey. 
May the gods give us wealth, wealth, karma power, meaning, desired means and speed. May this yajna be fruitful for us. (15)
The ray group of the apse is the body and name shobhan. These qualities grow by hiding in the cloud. Young women's forms illuminate the bright apanpatas like water gold in the sky, their water is everyone's fate. 
Prana and apana air, eyes, ears, lack of destruction and destruction, vayan and udan airs, speech and mind - all these have entered this body and started their own work. (26)
The medicinal habitation is in peepal and leaves. You become a go bhajan. You consume the sky. You rain. Make the host rich in food, (79)
O Ashchini Kumaro! This is beneficial for you. It belongs to Someras Tuvarsha, Yadu and Kanva Rishi. You must come here. (4)
The water that was shed for the first time by Indra's command went very far. Where is the head and head of that water? O burn! Where's your middle part? 
Those whose faith is deep and who have practiced controlling their mind and senses attain divine knowledge. Through such transcendental knowledge, they quickly attain everlasting supreme peace.
O Indra! When Someras is ready, Ritvij, who sings ukath mantras, is calling you. Like a thirsty bull, when will you come to our yagna to drink our someras? (15)
Hey Ritvijo! Go near the cows and praise them. They give us welfare money and take this yajna of ours closer to the gods. The streams of disgust move sweetly. 
Breathing and exhalation make the horse of his chariot, the charioteer and the air his whip. (27)
O Maruto! You become located in many ways among the people. The demons who come down as birds at night or who obstruct the ignited yagna, hold them as per your wish and grind them. 
Served by the praises of the meritorious hymn, the kranta-karma-wale som sits in the yajna and extends his stream to a distant country. 
We return your mind which has gone far to the sun rays going around. You live to live in this world. 
The Supreme Lord said: While you speak words of wisdom, you are mourning for that which is not worthy of grief. The wise lament neither for the living nor for the dead.
Rudra Dev Advocate, First God and Vaidya, please destroy all violent beings and lowly tendencies. (5)
And yet, the living beings do not abide in me. Behold the mystery of my divine energy! Although I am the creator and sustainer of all living beings, I am not influenced by them or by material nature.
O Indra! Come here. This prepared somersus is for you only. (1)
The third jhuloka from this land is the peepal tree, that is, the house of gods in heaven. Som without death has been born on that peepal. Leprosy medicine has been born from that Som. The medicine of all diseases, it is located with leprosy Soma. O leprosy! You destroy all diseases and all demons. (6)
When the gods named Sadhya and Vasu imagined the yajna purush, how much did they imagine it? What was its face, what were its arms and what were its feet called? (5)
Here humans and horses should be born and cows should be born. The donors of thousands of dakshinas should be seated here. (12)
O Indra! Come and sit down as a horse laughing at the place you have created for you to sit. Open the ropes that bind horses to the chariot and separate the horses from the chariot, because when the yagna period comes, those horses carry you day and night. 
O heroic Indra! We inspire you like a cow whose milk has not been milked. You are the swami of the world and the creator of heaven. (1)
It is authorized by Manu and radiantly appointed by The Day-Earth! Som has created both of you in the yagna. In a more worded yagna, the Ritvijas squeezed the somras. 
The agni said, "O gods! You give me more of the beginning, the end and the extraordinary parts of the yajna. You give me the essence of water, the principal part of the water produced by the herbs and the long life." 
The desires of a living person are those who want to have a wide, good and desireful thing and want good fruit. Yama looks at him with his own welfare eyes. 
To scatter the cloud, Indra's thunderbolt should appear with its brightness and the medium speech that exploits the water should appear as before and be light with its brightness. Just as the Sun God is illuminated with his own glory, in the same way, Indra, who follows gentlemen, should be highly bright. (9)
O Indra! Just as the Father gives a portion of His possessions to the wise Son, so give us an enemy-deserving son. Just as the ankush trembles the tree to break the ripe fruit, so you give us the money that fulfills the desire. 
In that cosmic form, Arjun saw unlimited faces and eyes, decorated with many celestial ornaments and wielding many kinds of divine weapons. He wore many garlands on his body and was anointed with many sweet-smelling heavenly fragrances. He revealed himself as the wonderful and infinite Lord whose face is everywhere.
Oh, hero! Praise the Brahmanaspati. Go out to war against arrogant enemies and strengthen your mind in the destructive struggle. Prepare a havya for the sake of Brahmanaspati. This will give you the best luck. We beg them to protect. 
The person who does not give food to a friend who is always with and serves, that person is not a friend. It is best to walk away from such a person. His house is not a home, at the same time the other rich giver should go to the house. 
Through this shobhan kriya of squeezing, the somas have attained growth for the devas and are pleased to say words like bulls. 
Saraswati Devi is holy. They are going to do powerful work through food. Hold the yajna. Shower wealth and wisdom. (84)
At this time the armaments of the enemies' armies are rising to kill us. To protect us from this slaughter, indra's arms should help everywhere. O king! O Savita! O Mon! Give me the best victory in the battle to avoid destruction. (2)
He has become very capable and dynamic and has gone to the end of the earth and he has become an ocean. (1)
O Indra! Why don't you, who are happy, who you carry the auspicious thing, which you worship, what you give, do for us? You make us happy. 
The gem worn by indra, agni etc. is tied in my arm to save it from destruction. O men! You also take shelter in all kinds of this gem that destroys enemies. This gem protects the body, has three types of coverings and increases strength. (20)
O agni! You deserve praise by human beings at the time of yajna. The Jatavedas are involved in agni wars and shine and are visible by rays. Praises awaken the ignited agni. 
O Maruto! You are pure for the pure. I perform pure yajna for you pure.  Those who touch the water attain the truth. Pure water and pure deserts purify others as well. 
O You Are The Terrible Indra! You protect the host who squeezes the somras and cooks the purodash, so you are truthful. We will recite your praises for many days, consisting of beloved and brave sons. 
Salutations to serpents named Asit, Tirshchiraji, Baberu and Swaj. Salutations to the gods capable of quenching the poison of the snake. (2)
We call the huge vegetation of twenty-one water, the mountains agni, the sompalak Gandharva named Krishnanu, the arrow-wielding Gandharvo, the nakshatras and the praiseworthy Rudra to protect Som in the yajna. 
O agni! The present comes to you first as lightning in the sky like the place of origin of the praise-rich waters and the nest of clouds. The seven beloved are praiseworthy, very beautiful and luminous by aiming at the glorious agni. 
When the Somras go to Nikud, the leaders of the yajnakarma repeatedly call Indra and Agni, who have the best horses, with the desire of public service. 
We should be so successful that even enemies sing our success. By getting happiness through Indra, we should become rich in beautiful agriculture. (6)
The devotees exploiting the yajna squeeze the mon placed on golden leather by the bright and the leaders. The word Som goes towards the tronkalsh while doing the word. In all the three saavans, the present day of Som Yajna is adorned in the morning. 
O Shobhan with fingers and going to the point mon! You send your word into space. O Pawman Mon! You give the psalms yellow, more and more money than many want. 
O aschinikumaro! Protect the one who praises the charming praise from the heat. May your defense be near us. 
 O Vishnu! We invite you from all sides. You are Rashmivan. You accept our desire. May our good praises enhance yours. Please do us well-being with your auspicious blessings. 
We invoke God for our desired accomplishment. We dedicate our desire to God for our desired accomplishment. We wisely invoke the deity. (91)
The stable and movable world becomes absorbed in Brahman. The powerful enemy scares the slaves. Salaried soldiers pray to Indra in wars. (5)
I request the well-luminous Indra and Varuna to protect me. Both of them will protect me. 
Through the evil deeds of those who destroy the family tradition and thus give rise to unwanted progeny, a variety of social and family welfare activities are ruined.
O swami! I cover you with Indra's armor. He became the king of Indra devas.   May all gods cover you with their own shields to accomplish their actions. O swami! May all gods protect you. (4)
Aditya, Varuna, Vayu, The Burning Fire, The Soodhaya Soma, the Divine Waters and the offspring produced earlier by Prajapati said when Jupiter committed the sin of wife.' 
O Indra who rides on horses with green or hari name! No one can equate the forces and welfare of your past karma. (5)
O priest! Spread the glory of heaven and earth everywhere. Spread the flame from the vegetation everywhere. Spread the glow received with water everywhere. Like Indra's bajra, we should put the chariot in the sacrificial work. The chariot shines like the rays of the sun. (53)
Hey Ritvijo! You serve the Holy Jupiter by the praises in the yajna. I ask them for the strength that the enemy cannot defeat. 
This vasa roams around increasing the temperature in other cows. If its owner does not donate it, she exploits the poison for it. (38)
O great Maruto! You must know Our praises quickly. O you seeable! We praise you with a beautiful greeting. Let the deserts come before us as good and kill with their weapons the mortal enemy who is angry with us. 
The hostile agent who has secretly committed the misdeed of sending an act on us, Indra should destroy him with his huge weapon and agni dev should burn him with his flames. (12)
May all the gods come to this yagna of mine and my master, the powerful Kamadeva, complete it in front of my eyes and make me enemy-free. (7)
Surya Prajapati is by following the subjects through rain etc. I am surrounded by the armor of Prajapati Sun and the light and glory of Sage Kashyapa, I am safe. I am old and have strong limbs and enjoy many types of enjoyments. May I be worthy of the grace of the Sun God while attaining a long life and doing the work of cosmic and Vedas. (27)
He is the leader of Indra, the one who subdues the enemies in the war zone and the one who illuminates the yagnas. (1)
I put this havi in the Vaishvanar agni. These hives are similar to gold with hundreds of thousands of streams. Vaishvanar Agni has been satisfied with this havi. This agni nourishes our fathers, grandfathers and great grandfathers. (35)
A growing, powerful and energetic enemy frightens his slaves. Variable and constantly the whole world becomes absorbed in us. Those who get salary pray to God in true heroic war. (2)
O air! You add a hundred healthy horses to your chariot or a thousand. Let your chariot with them come quickly. 
 O Indra! Teach us to perform yajna work, just as the father teaches his son. That is, give us money in the form of education. We should see the sun every morning. 
O agni! Our ancestors engaged in performing the best, ancient and true yajna had attained a bright place and a deepness, destroyed the darkness by speaking the ukthamantra and pulled out the red-coloured cows stolen by the pangs. 
O agni! You are rich, ghee drinker, hota, superior, wonderful and courageous son. Please make this yajna a success. (70)
O Vritrahanta Indra! May we be happy through your growth and consider ourselves free from destruction. (2)
O Ashwinikumaro who knows everything! You come to us with wealth as a giver like the rich. Just as milk fills the cow's trunk, so do you complete us with wealth. 
 O hosts! We repeatedly invoke our friend Indra to protect ourselves in our deeds. 
 O Indra! Hundreds of lands, hundreds of suns and hundreds of worlds cannot even be equal to the glory of you. No one has arisen like you so far. No one can equate you even in the atmosphere and the space system. 
O Indra! You are going to do hundreds of types of deeds. You give us food, sing and sleep. 
For the earth, for the ear, the instrument of hearing the sound, for the presiding deities of the trees on the ground and for Agni, the swami of the earth, the yajna agni should be offered. (1)
Oh my friend and Varun! By praising both of you, we will receive such wealth, due to which competitions take place in the houses of wealthy and stothas. 
 O Mon! You are holy. Evil demons cannot progress with your strong fasts. Those who want to fight, you destroy those enemies. 
We praise Indra who knows everything, is worthy of praise and has been advanced by yayogyas. The importance of the most intelligent Indra is more than the earth and the sky. 
I appear before the fathers who do welfare. I am present in front of the agni that protects the yajna. Therefore, the ancestors who are going to sit on the bahishad i.e. kushas, they drink someras with swadha. O agni! Call them close to me. (45)
Hey Ritvijo! Somers drinkers especially praise their Indra. Indra is the one who defeats all the enemies, performs a hundred yagnas and gives the most money to the people. 
Som, the king of cows, meets in milk and grows in a yagyarupi sarlagamini boat. The mons brought by the hawk bird grow in the waters. Adhwaryu and other people milk Soma, son of Hulok. 
 O Mon! Please give us three hundred and three thousand clothes of dust and masculinity. Your currents flow at a velocity. 
O Agni and Soma! Establish force in this host and give it money. You make this host a member of the upper class of the district. To get this fruit, I do the best yajna karma. (2)
O king! May you always be present on this kingdom throne. Never be deprived of this. You remain as stable as a mountain and remain stable in this nation like Indra. You hold this nation of yours. (2)
Indra entered the enemy armies, taking away enough money from the warrs, obstructing and moving ahead of the desire for war. Indra made the ushas known to the eulogist and increased their bright color. 
The makers of the two lokas, the yajna and the well-adorned agni in the yajna, revolve in the sun, in the sky, and live on the earth as the root cause of all the deeds. Hymns with sweet voices speak sweet hymns for them. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
Wear all the fruits that are eligible for selection. They should be for the host who wants to get the fruit. Provide nectar like Indra etc. for that host. All those Gods and Goddess Aditi are trying together. (3)
The living substances are ours and all the substances brought are also ours. All the armies and enemies of the enemies have been defeated. Born in such a tribe and the son of such a mother, this is my enemy. I surround its head, glory, life and life and defeat this enemy. (36)
O Mon! Who are you? Where are you from? Who do you belong to? What is your name, knowing that we can satisfy you with somers. You are everywhere. By your grace, we should have good children, brave hair and be strengthened with good nutrition. (29)
Look at the form of Surya. The color of the wrapping part of its garment is different and the part that covers the head is of a different color. It's cracked from three places. Brahma alone can purify this garment. 
Arjun said: O mighty-armed Krishna, I wish to understand the nature of sanyās (renunciation of actions) and tyāg (renunciation of the desire for the fruits of actions). O Hrishikesh, I also wish to know the distinction between the two, O Keshinisudan.
 O Mon! You know the one who increases intelligence, the unique, the heavenland and the Usha. You publish and awaken day and night. You are refined for Indra by mystics. You flow into the character while making a sound. 
With their minds fixed on me and their lives surrendered to me, my devotees remain ever contented in me. They derive great satisfaction and bliss in enlightening one another about me, and conversing about my glories.
O agni! You come with other agnis worthy of yajna. We choose you as we would. May the cowards, raised in their hands and disgusted, make you sit all over the kushas. 
O long-aged Indra! A man who does not believe in the gods does not receive all the food. The man who adds indra's white-coloured horses to the chariot, Indra comes to his yajna with the help of his horses. 
O wife! I bind you to the essence of the earth's water and to the essence of medicines. You are the one who gives me wealth, being endowed with people and wealth. (70)
You two mature for Ashwinikumars. You mature for Saraswati Devi. Indra Dev employs other gods. You mature for Indra Dev. The holy Soma is being immersed in the yagna from the air. Som is associated with Indra Dev. Som is a friend (sakha) of Indra Dev. (31)
This mon sees the whole world like the sun, goes to the thirty uquth characters and surrounds the seven rivers from heaven to earth. 
In front of whom the heavens and the earth bow, with fear of which the mountains also tremble, who are with a strong body and powerful arms due to sompaning and those who wear the thunderbolt are Indra. (14)
They cross the dashapavitra made of the hair of the som sheep, the swift, the illuminator of heaven, the destroyers of demons and the lingering mon sheep. 
O Indra! Come to the yajna sthal and drink the soma mixed with godhugdha and barley and squeezed with the help of stones. 
O Indra! The praises and circumambulations made for you, when we hold, are first of all towards you and later to the sun. 
Rudra Dev and Trimbak should protect us. They should be a growing, creditor and a business-enhancer for us. (58)
This lifeless man survived. It should not be attained by death. We motivate you to try it. We treat this dying man. O death! Don't kill him. (5)
O desireful and master agni! You mix all beings well. Lums are ignited on the yajnavedi. You give us the money. 
Praise is obtained from praish (suffering or motivation) etc. The beloved is attained from the beloved. Yajna leads to yajna. Yajan attains the one who imitates the yajna. Gifts are obtained from the descendants. (19)
Soup is the sacred shade, the land is the sage and the desire is water. (16)
May this woman, who wishes for Prajavati and husband, sit on the grass and antelope kept by you. (22)
This wound-cooking herb i.e. soil has been dug from the field. It is a medicine for diarrheal diseases and calms them down. (5)
Indra is great. They get growth from rainwater like a full cloud by vatsa's stom i.e. mantra group. (1)
No matter how delicious, the host should not eat cow's milk and meat. (9)
O germ! I break your horns by which you cause suffering. I also scatter your particular organ called Kushumbha, which is going to contain poison. (6)
O wise and rich Indra! You hold your weapon called shakti like a curb. Just as the goat pulls the branch of the tree with its front legs, so you draw the enemies with your power. The divinely virtuous and well-being mother has given birth to you. 
O agni! Let your speed not be the destroyer of our vision. You only give houses to a few hosts. You accept our service. 
O aschinikumaro who destroys the pride of the enemies! Just as you heard the praise of Atri Muni, so also listen to me. You drink somras in the morning together with Usha and Surya. 
Oh my soul! Bring the cows to me. Hey, sing! You come to me. Bring the land and cows from all four directions to me. Sing also return to me from the said places. 
Hey Mon! Just as women praise their beloved lover, so people's voice praises you. Just as Shur goes to sangram, so som goes to his fixed place. 
O sing! You come to my cowshed. Just as the fly grows offspring, becomes countless in a moment, in the same way you also become more children. Give birth to sons and grandsons in this gaushala and have love for me seeker. (4)
When called by the sages who squeeze Indra Som, who is human-friendly and omniscient, come for our yajna. Indra is pleased with the beautiful horses, the fearless, the somras called by the squeezers and the heroic maruts. 
O Ashwini Kumaro! You are going to sharpen everyone. Both of you provide us with a growing wealth like yellow gold. (83)
Listen to the beauty of the agni me parrot, the agni moving upwards. Usha, who makes all the people old and faces east, goes to the yagna. The revered host and his wife come on the path of yajna like the charioteers. The hymn sent by us performs the yajna. 
O agni! Please be kind that we may protect you every day. O Lord of Shobhan Yajna! Do so that we can get money. You can perform yajna, sing, and be happy with your sons and grandsons. 
O Life God! Salutations to the one who comes and salutations to those who go back. O Life God! Salutations to those who are still and to those who are sitting. (7)
Shakra 
Due to all the un-drying flows of ghee, milk and water that are always moving, all our wealth should increase. (4)
O Rudra Dev! Make the bows of those who are located in directions and many directions without attachment. Please keep their bows away from us for thousands of plans. (63)
O enemies! You run away from here defeated, frightened and dalited by our mantra force. None of these, influenced by the mantra force by Jupiter, survived. (19)
 O Mon! You shine. You're white. May we get your support day and night. Like the shining sun from a distance, you can also be seen from a distance. You are as dynamic as birds. 
O Indra! You're even more wealthy than my father. You are greater than my unspoiled brother. O abode Indra! Together you and my mother worship me for vast wealth. 
 O agni! You are big flames and young. You are the giver of prosperity and purity.   You ignite your intense radiance in a very bright form for Bharadvaj 
Indra, who complements the yajna, the stota and makes everyone old, is the protector of the hosts who squeeze someras. His intelligence is commendable. The high dronalash for Indra to drink is filled with somersa. I choose Devmata Aditi, who protects everyone. 
These stones give similar words to the predatory bulls that eat the branch of the red-colored tree. The same kind of words that carnivores do when the meat is cooked, these stones do while drinking intoxicating som happily. 
May the rain make everyone happy, childless, present in the sky, unustainable, water-giving milking, interconnected and very new directions tremble. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
Therefore, the Brahmin's Dhenu is known as the one who killed hundreds of learned men. (6)
The sacred part of The Som, who has tormented the enemies, extends to the high place of Duloka. Its bright rays are located in various ways. The early juice of Som protects the host. After this, he is found in the high place of heaven by the wisdom that goes near to the gods. 
O Indra! May you give strength, strength, food and wealth to us powerful and wise. Let us equip the rich sages with servants and sons and grandsons of praise and protect us in the future. 
 O agni! O Indra! You are a leader and a progressive. You save us from sin and violence. You keep us away from condemnable acts. 
Hey Yous mon! You go to the air for the sake of paan. You go to your friend and Varuna while you are cleansed. All of you leaders, as fast as the mind and sitting in the chariot, go to the Ashchinikumaras and go to the desireful and Vajrabahu Indra. 
O agni that calls the gods, praiseworthy and worthy of worship! You come with the vasuas. O great agni! You are gods. O agni, the most sacrificial agni! Listen to our prayers and worship these gods. 
The Trita sage, who had increased strength from the part of the yajna, made uttam and jagatpalak Indra a friend through the yajna, who wanted his share in the middle of the yajna, having his protective means. In the present yajna in the middle of the parent-fatherly dyava-prithvivi, the Trita, along with the ritvijs, received the arms while speaking hymns in line with Indra. 
Give us a portion of real and movable assets. They give us food and long life with brave men. 
O Lord Indra! In heaven, on earth and in space, you are an extension of yourself. Please make others (human beings) including gods beautiful in the space world. (5)
 O water! You are energy holder and happy. Please give us strength for the struggle. 
O Brahmin's cow! You run to death. (9)
These activities must be performed without attachment and expectation for rewards. This is my definite and supreme verdict, O Arjun.
O Indra! There is no blasphemy among the human beings of our fathers who fight for cows. Indra, who had glory and vrithrahananadi karma, had given rich songs to those Angiragotrian sages. 
May the mountains with adornment hymns and the rivers with the best donations be the reason for our protection. Let the clitoris who share the wealth come to us with the grain. Listen to my praise, Aditi, who is everywhere. 
It is as God wills, no one can destroy the desire of gods. Even man who wants to be god's will is not destroyed. 
O Mon! Strike the thunderbolt on the face of the enemy who obstructs us and defeats us with his harsh words. He should run away from the trauma of the enemy thunderbolt. (2)
 O Mon! Your voice is as aural as the waves of the sea. You are introverted and intuitive. Your ability is limitless and it never ends. Just like a bull goes to cows, you go to Dronakalsh. 
O agni! You should consume this dead person happily from the directions of west, east, north, south etc. You are one, but the host established you in three forms. You establish this host well in the world of the superiors. (11)
O aschinikumaro! You gave Pedu a white horse to conquer the enemies in the war desired by many, glorious, worthy of repeated work in all the works, and as glorious as Indra. 
 O agni! You believe we would. We are your slaves. You are a wealth giver, a giver of knowledge and an omniscient. We offer sacrifices to omniscient and Brahmins like you. We want the grace of the gods living in the upper 
Sing to our house and do us well. Let them sit in our goshala and be pleased with us. In this goshala, cows with different colours are calves and give milk in the morning for Indra. 
"O God! If you have eaten this odan with a different head than the head with which the previous ritualists ate it, then your child will die in the first order, that is, the eldest boy will die first of all, after that the younger one should say to the disciple. The disciple should say that I did not eat this odan facing the head, nor have I eaten it in front of the soul. From the head of Odan related to Jupiter, I had eaten Odan and from that head I have brought Odan to where it should reach. This odan is full of all organs, all joints and full body. The man who knows how to eat odan in the manner mentioned above is full of organs, with all joints and with a full body. (1)
O Indra! You meet our enemy with death. O Brave and enemy Indra! We praise you. O Indra, the giver of white milk-giving cow! We have never stopped by your praises. O wise Indra! Satisfy the people of The Angiragotra with food. 
O revered Indra! You are our defaulter, even though you are traveling. You give money to protect people with strange deeds. 
This cow of Brahmin is going to increase addictions i.e. bad addictions while cooking and causes bad dreams when cooked. (5)
The agni offered by the housewife should give happiness in the evening and morning and in all times. O agni! You be the giver of all kinds of wealth. Let us strengthen the bodies of sons, friends, etc. by illuminating you with Havi. (3)
We call ashwinikumaras to the yagna. Their chariots are beautiful and they are extremely engrossed in chariots. 
O jataved agni! Cover Aditya Dev i.e. the sun with the bodies of the bodies falling into the sky. This army, which belongs to the god named Trishandhi, should be well under my control, so that I can kill the enemies. (4)
People overcome great calamities through pilgrimages and sacrifices. In this way, those who think and do yajna karma, while searching for the path through which men go to heaven, the yajna karta should open that path for this host. (7)
Vaku, the daughter of Brahmavadini of Ambhrun Maharshi, has praised herself as Brahma. I communicate with Rudras and Vasus. I communicate with the Adityas and the Gods of the universe. I hold friends and Varun. I have also worn Indra, Agni and both Aschini kumaras. (1)
O agni! You are the ones who perform the yajna of the great gods, so worship the gods continuously even in our yajna and bring the gods before us to protect us. You give us the good food and accept the gift given to us. 
O Indra! Make us devotees to the sun, to the waters and to the human beings admired by the living beings for being sinless. Don't do violence to our pregnant children. We are reverent to your great power. 
O Jupiter God! You and Indra are going to be happy in this yajna and rain wealth. You both drink someras. The best Somers has entered the bodies of both of you. Give us wealth with all sons. (1)
O Indra of supreme opulence! May you be pleased with us and give us the desired fruit. O Shur Indra! With the help of your horses, you come to my yajna and drink somers squeezed in this yajna. This someras is praiseworthy and sweet. When drinking, it causes somerous satiety and excellent intoxication. (1)
Targeting the sages who were born, the wise ritwijas uttered this hymn with their mouths giving enough money. 
O wife! I am Sama and you are Richa. I am the sky and you are the earth. I am the form of Vishnu and you are my Lakshmi. Let us live together in this world and produce children. (71)
 Someras is superior and brilliant. Its streams are used in the yajna. The upward stream of the shining someras is used in the yagna as a dynamic. Somers is naturally purified. 
O Indra! May you be pleased with the praise of us servants and situated around us as roundabouts. 
Oh, horse! The good fortunes of chariots, men, cows and women follow you, other horses have followed you and found your friendship. Ritwiz is pleased to praise your bravery deeds. 
O the abode of The Gross Bhuvana- Earth! The man who gives a vow for your easy movement fulfills his desires and progresses through his son and grandson. Your semen present on top of the karmas takes on a pattern. 
O Mother! My head, waist and legs are twitching like a bird. Be as it is to be. Indra is the best of all. (7)
Who wanders alone? Who arises again and again? What is the medicine of snow? What is the largest place to sow seeds well? (45)
 O Mon! Your path is of truth. You are going to connect shaktimaan, leading and speech. Som enters the yagyashala with water. 
O Son of God! Please protect our yajna emergency (completely and in every way). May the gods of heaven and earth also be pleased to extend the yajna with you. Please give us money from your place of residence. (13)
O son of Kunti, even those devotees who faithfully worship other gods also worship me. But they do so by the wrong method.
O father! Who donates Aj in the form of the third Panchodan for Brahma, this aj given by the devotee in this world destroys the wide darkness in the distant world. (11)
O Indra! You save us from poverty, hunger and condemnation. O Mahabali and Indra who knows the way! You, with your protection and strange yajnakarmas, give us the things we want. 
May the devas who confirm the Energya king protect us again and again. 
Hey Mon! You strive towards Dashapavitra by being marred by stones and giving shobhan dhanadi to the hymn. 
 O Mon! You are an enemy destroyer. You get the prescribed milk content for Havi. To attain immortality, you should get the best food and the best strength in heaven. 
Follow our cows to protect the priest. Let them protect our horses and give us food. 
O Worship, Vishnu and The Desert! Make our yajnas full of animals like cows etc. and make us devoid of destruction. 
 May Indra, along with adityas, marudaganas and other associates, please prepare a pharmacist 
Under the pain of hunger, I eat various types of food in many ways, in addition to the food, the gold, horses and cows I take due to poverty, make my host all the food, gold etc. (1)
The horse given by the regulator fire was added to the chariot by the present air in three places like earth etc. Indra was the first to ride on this chariot and Gandharvo grabbed his reins. The vasus received ash from the sun. 
The three legs of the Supreme Personality of Godhead are embedded in the vertical world. One part contains this world. The root, the conscious are all contained in this leg of this. (4)
This hymn has been created for the purpose of self-illuminated rain. Accept this hymn. It's in their minds. Let it be rain that makes us happy. The drugs protected by the parasites are fruitful. 
I ask for the desired fruit from a lustful, undeserved and serviceable Jupiter, riding a bull named Vishwaroop. 
Just as Somras came to Manu's yagna in ancient times, so he should be crushed by this stone and enter the water. The hosts had resorted to these stones during the yagna period when the son of the skin surrounded by cows and horses was violated. 
The first upper life of this vatya is agni. (3)
O men! Get up, the inspiring organism of our body has come. The darkness is gone and the light is coming. Usha clears the way for the sun to move. Oh, Usha! We go to the country in which you grow food. 
O inspiration of all Savita Dev! I beg your grace to be allowed by the truth, desirable and desirable by all. That grace vision of Savita Dev was received by a sage named Kanva. That grace vision was very enhanced, with many streams and was fortunate. (1)
O guiding Father! We make you like a chariot in battle for the sake of food and sacrifice. 
 Agni is strong. They are installed to destroy enemies in wars. Brahmins are the main means of yajna. Yajna comes to fruition from them. 
O fire admired by humans! Bring the gods here on your most pleasant chariot. You are the man-benefactor and the one who calls the gods. 
O act! The one who meditates has placed you in the well, in the crematorium or in the house. We return you to him who sent you. (8)
They are the violators of their enemy and the destroyers of our enemy. Just as people are surrounded by thirst in the desert, so do the soms surround the shanrus. Hey Mon! Kill these two types of enemies. 
O Indra, who dalits enemies! Drink someras located in the drona kalash. O Indra, who destroys the shura and vritra! You do sompan for money wars, that is, to get us money. You drink someras full in our middayin yagna. You are the master of wealth, that is why give us wealth. (2)
By saying that the army of the enemy, the swami of all, Indra, while hurrying to kill the vritra demon, attack the thunderbolt who takes away its strength. Just as animal flesh is cut into pieces, so attack your enemies. O Indra! You, while desiring water, destroy the body of the tree with your thunderbolt for the flow of water on the ground. (12)
 O agni! You make us longevity. You give us the best food, the strength. You obstruct the wicked. 
From the first time, past, future, sons and riches arose. Yajurveda was born since time immemorial. (3)
In the Marudgan Yajna, the meritorious hymns who speak hymns are as well as the meritorious hymns, those who satisfy the gods by the yagnas, those who satisfy the gods by the yajnas, those with adornment deeds like the hosts, the worshipers and the housewives are as worshipable and visible as the kings, and the homeowners are as sinless as the human beings. 
Hey Mon! You sit on the same chariot with Indra and go to the army of gods. Being pure, undeterred and carried by the debtors, the Mons give money to the stotas. 
Oh, horse! Thus, when you are sacrificed, you do not die or are not harmed by the people. You go to the gods by the best of paths. Indra's horses called Hari, the deer of the desert, and the donkeys that are ploughed in the chariot of the Ashvinikumaras will plow in your chariot. 
 Someras is intelligent, holy and attacks all enemies. Gyani adorns that Soma with stotras. 
Khuva endows the pratip. (2)
 O Mon! Listen to the prayers of your sons. In the yajna, Indra and all the gods should be pleased to drink your juice. 
O son of the force and lord of the Vasus, Agni! To the vasishthagotriya sages who are your stomata and haviyukta. You get it quickly through food and protect us through welfare means. 
O agni! We cannot defeat the enmity of men and gods. Save us from these two types of enemies. 
Agni Dev is illuminated before dawn. The great Jataveda agni remains illuminated throughout the day after this. Agni is manifested in many ways, due to which they are illuminated in the form of rays of the sun. In this way, the agni god is illuminated everywhere in the earth and sky. (5)
O God and Fire! You're located here. You give us the famous pleasures, the cow and the horse. 
I invoke Savita, Brihaspati, Varuna, Indra and Agni and Vishwa Devs, who have gold in their hands, to give the stotas. They should calm this meat-eating agni. (8)
O Aabhrutha (bath yagna)! You are going to go out and flow continuously. Please remove our sins towards the gods by divine grace. Please remove our sins committed to human beings. Please remove your troubled enemies. By your grace, divinity increases. (27)
The man who knows this eats food through Annad Brahma. (24)
Neither celestial gods nor the great sages know my origin. I am the source from which the gods and great seers come.
May indra, the one who is loved by the somers, who is called to search for the cows stolen by the panis and the one about whom the means of worship depend on mantras, save us from sin. (5)
O Ushadevi! You come close to the sun-like beloved with a dainty and lightened sun, clarifying your limbs like a virgo. You dress your secret organs in front of the sun, being very light and laughing like a young woman. 
O agni! By your grace, I remove the seeker yajna, karma, radiance, wealth and mind of these enemies in the heavens etc. May my enemies be in a lower position than me. May you bring my host to a better heaven without all suffering. (4)
The soon-to-be-run mon appears listening to all the praises with a sweet stream of intoxicating juice. 
The newly arrived Angira, Atharva and Bhrigu are the officers of Pitra Somras. Let us get the grace of those sacrificial fathers and get the welfare because of their grace. 
 O Mon! By listening to our prayers, you make a sound in the same way as a red bull makes a sound when you see cows. You come to heaven and earth. Like Indra's words, we hear your voice. You make everyone aware of your nature. Please listen to the prayers of the host. 
When Jupiter dev broke the mountain that hid the cows and got the cows, then Indra etc. gods adorned the sky with constellations in the same way as they decorate the horse. In this way, he established darkness in the night and light in the day. (11)
Intelligent and bright agnis are well-lit. O agni! Worship the vast earth and the heavens with the heart. Just as people worship the guest, so the host pleases the agni by havan. 
 Mother Earth is rich. They are connected in the chariot of maruts. They are worshipped everywhere. They raise their sons by producing food etc. 
O agni! You are uniquely located among the ancient and ancient people and give people delightful wealth through yajnakartas. O jativeda and a knowledgeable agni! You give money to the host for this. 
Indra disciplines humans in many ways. For Indra, the earth holds various kinds of wealth. Heaven, herbs, water, man and forest protect wealth for indra's sake. 
O sacrifice! You should perform yajna and go near the worthy God Vishnu, so that you can be distinguished. After this, you will get the host who follows the yajna to give fruit. After this, you gain the power of God who is because of the whole world. It is a gift of ajya shobhan ahuti. (5)
O God! You are imbued with divine qualities. May agni free us from all the sins committed by us. Please save us from all such acts of agni. (14)
The anti-infective has emerged as the main of all herbs that defeat diseases. Through this, I eliminate the cause of diseases like ringworm, itching, leprosy, etc., in the same way as the head of the bird is cut off from the khadga. (2)
I repeatedly acknowledge the importance of Indra. These hymns of Indra, who killed Vritra, come close to me and make me a stota. Indra, who accepts the call of the host who gives charu, purodash, etc. and performs the best yajna, save me from sin. (1)
With the help of this Taurus form dharma, the gods have renounced their bodies and attained heaven. That heaven is the navel of nectar. With the help of this Taurus, we conquer the land received as the fruit of virtue. Through the circle related to the bright Sun, we desire the happiness of Aditya. (6)
Oh my friend and Varun! We cut the som with stones, so you come to our yajna.  The satiating milk-mixed mon is ready. You are the ones who live in heaven, our lords and the light. You come to our yajna. This bright mon mixed with milk is for your own sake . 
O Ashwinikumaro! May the psalm by which I praise you be well fulfilled. O gods of different creations and sins! Give me more food. 
My son i.e. Bharadwajagotriya Rishi praises the gods through worshipable mantras. O god of yajnapatra! You are worshiped by Havya, the abode-giver, the invincible and the devaswives. 
O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! You took out of the vulmic the forefathers eaten by special insects called the sub-hika. The blind forefather looked as well as a snake, because the limbs eaten by his sub-conqueror had been undone by Indra. 
This friend, Stotao! Sit down and sing praises to Mon while being cleansed. Just as parents decorate the children with ornaments, etc., decorate the som with sacrificial havyas. 
 Som is holy. They are adorned like a king. They are ready to destroy the shanrus for the protection of the people. 
O Indra! On the occasion of work, we take refuge in you. You are the one who controls the enemies, constant and very powerful. You get us as assistants. We worship you as a friend to protect ourselves. (2)
The welfare horse and courtiers who reach the floor want to laugh. Just as the male genitals want a hole in rome and the frog wants water, so I want som. Hey Mon! You shower your juice for Indra. 
O Indra! Just as a cow that is satisfied with chas eliminates the hunger of its calf, so also protect us before you come before the enemy comes before you come before you come. Just as wives surround the young man, so too do you, O Shatrattu Indra! We will surround you with beautiful praises. 
O agni! You pierce the hearts of the demons with those arrows and break their arms with those arrows, bowing down arrows through our sacrifices and praises and sharpening their fruits with vanas. 
O agni! You know us and listen to our call. Save us from all sin-seeking people. 
O Brahmin's cow! You pierce this stealer and destroy him. (5)
Oh my friend and Varun! Your power is asura destructive and non-opposition. Your great power is pervaded. As the sun appears in the sky, so do you set your visible power in the yajna. 
Tell me again in detail your divine glories and manifestations, O Janardan. I can never tire of hearing your nectar.
Oh, God! Satiating, pleasing, intoxicating and point form is placed in somras characters. 
This medicine has been strengthened by Jupiter for the world gods. The milk that is located in the cows, we combine this medicine with it. (57)
O Ashwinikumaro! Drink the sweet somarah and sit on shobhan kushas. Just as gaur deer come to the pond to drink water, so you should go and come to our praise. 
O aschinikumaro! Where do you live by night and day? Where does your time pass? Where do you live? Just as the widow calls her brother-in-law and the sadhwa calls her husband to the cot, so who besides me makes you compatible with him on the yajna-vedi? 
O victorious Indra and Vishnu! You never lose. None of these two are going to lose. You have found the one whom you have located in three places and competed with the asuras for innumerable things by your might. 
O Agni! The raksash obstacles are not able to destroy the yajnas related to you, because you give happiness in the form of fruits to the hosts engaged in those deeds. If your karma is hampered by raksash, then you take your fellow leader Marudgan and drive them away. 
O Indra! The latest sages praise your most ancient heroic deeds. You have eliminated many violent people to end the war. You have destroyed the devout cities of the opponents and bowed your thunderbolt on the anti-charity circle. 
 O Indra! We also aspire to be as rich as you. You give us hosts a nutritious money. Don't give money to sinners. This is what we worshippers pray to you. 
Among those who attain success, the most successful, the earth-born and beloved somas are purified on the dashapavitra made of high and sheep's hair. Hey Mon! Speak well in the space while being cleansed and protect us always with welfare means. 
This nityatarun aschinikumaro! Listen to our call, come into our house of worship. Increase the gemstones and the two hymns. Oh, God! You always protect us by your means of well-being. 
O Jupiter! You are the ones who save everyone from the disturbances and follow our sons and grandsons. You express your happiness by speaking biased words towards us. We call you. You destroy the deities. May the enemies of the evil sense get the best happiness. 
"At the time I join the war that usually unfolds, all the sages sit around me. I conquer the enemy who moves around him for the welfare of the people and hold his feet and throw him on the mountain." 
O special seer Indra! Just as women with children are surrounded from all sides by son etc., in the same way, it is surrounded by Soma Adhwaryu etc. This mon you get. (1)
The mantras named Chaturhotra, the mantras related to pashuyag, the four festivals performed in four months, the mantras that tell the rise of the deity related to praise, nivid, yajna, hota, ishtis - all these are located in the Brahman of Yajnaasheshesh. (19)
O agni! Let us give the owners of the wealth of the human being, without kidnapping, non-perishable and with semen. O global! We will get hundreds and thousands of kinds of food to protect you. 
O rain falling from height to bottom! Hello to you. Salutations to your angry weapon vajra. We know the inaccessible and exquisite habitat of your cave. Just as the navel is the intermediary in the body, so you are located in the ocean, the center of space. (3)
Naman to Satyapati. Naman to the thief controller. Naman to the disease controller. Naman to the nuisance controller. Naman to the hijack controller. Naman to the forester. Naman to Rudra Dev. (20)
Follow the friend masters of those who do the most worded hymns and the agni hymns who destroy the nearest enemies. They give shelter to us and scholars. 
 Someras is intelligent, illuminating the land of heaven, strengthening the earth and enjoying. He is going to give joy to Agni, Indra and Vishnu. It is prepared in the vessel. 
We call indra, who is enthusiastic in the battle for wealth, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the leader of the world, the hearer of praises, the fiercest of the enemies, the destroyer of the enemies, the demon destroyer in the war and the winner of the wealth of the enemies. 
O agni! You become the god of this sacrificial act of ours. O agni of truth and righteousness! You know our hymn. When will your hymns that please us be spoken in our homes and when will friendship with you be formed in our house? 
Wishing for us cows and wealth, the radiant, the conquerors of the asuras and the ones who are themselves non-violent by others, do the word while the som nichuds. 
O Indra! The leader of the yagnakarma, inspired by human beings and squeezed as a stream, comes to increase your strength. You complete the yajnakarma by drinking somras. You have won the enemies well in the yajna. The green-coloured Som sits in characters called Chamu in the same way as the birds sit on the tree. 
Deserts go to the yagna like a som with a warm and adorned with agni, with a breast-place with golden ornaments, self-fulfilling and quick-moving, like the best wise, as the best wise, and adorned like the som with the mouth. 
O Indra! You had already separated one wheel of the sun's chariot and gave the other wheel to the dog so that he could get money. You killed the non-wording bandits by a thunderbolt in the battle. 
Indra said, "I have heard indrani lucky in all these women. Her husband does not die of old age like other women. Indra is the best." 
O agni! Give us that money soon. Which those who praise receive from you through praise. O son of strength, agni! Let us give food to the wishers and protect us from objections. We ask you for money. Be you the reason for our prosperity in Sangram. 
O Indra! Meet with you the lords of all men, the people who rain water for the welfare of men and the learned deserts. The army of the Maruts has always moved forward, laughing, to win the war that is fought for happiness. 
O daughter of heaven Usha! Dawn with our wealth. O vibhavari! Do the morning with enough food. O God! You should be charitable and observe with animal-like wealth. 
Being freed from attachment, fear, and anger, becoming fully absorbed in me, and taking refuge in me, many persons in the past became purified by knowledge of me, and thus they attained my divine love.
O Life God! Salutations to those who do the business of breathing and salutations to those who leave your air. What is the benefit of saying more, salutations to you who do all the business i.e. actions. (8)
O fire! You should drink the sweet som with the brightness of all the gods, Indra, Vayu and friend. 
When the swami of the vasha is dear to the animals when the brahmins donate the vasha. Vasha is provided to the gods in the form of Havi. (40)
O Indra and Agni! Come to our yagna through the same chariot which illuminates the whole world, which illuminates the whole world and drink the som squeezed by the ritvijas. 
I choose the father of wisdom, the adorner of the yagna, the invoking of the gods, the enemy-loser and the honourable agni. At that time, apart from the agni, no one can decide whether the agni will be given a little bit or more. 
O karyati ashwinikumaro! Add horses to the chariot which is more fast than the mind, with three seats to sit on the charioteer, three-wheeled, overlaid with three metals, and fulfilling the desire. Just as the bird flies fast with the help of the wings, so you go to the host performing the yajna with that chariot. 
 O Mon! You are mixed with water like full rivers full of water. You are happy and awake. Someras 
From the mode of goodness arises knowledge, from the mode of passion arises greed, and from the mode of ignorance arise negligence and delusion.
The brilliant agni completely destroys the sins that are worthy of destruction of the human subjects by its power. 
O Indra! You pervad the heavens and the earth with your glory. You are always new. You desire our beloved hymn. You tell the sun the place to keep cows stolen by the wives. Please be kind that those who praise the sun give that seminar i.e. a place to keep cows. (1)
O garbha agni of yajna! Wood in the form of water, stone and agniwood make you powerful. You are forced by men and appear in the higher place of the earth. 
When he walked towards the upward direction, he made the successor annad and went on to become Jupiter. (17)
Just as a well-sharpened arrow leaves the bow and soon falls piercing the ground. O cough! In the same way, aim at the earth tied with an arrow and go away from this man. (2)
Oh rice! I am making you more for the sake of a stable and good fruit work. That's why you sit in the soup. You get separated from the husk suitable for use in the yajna. Let us also become superior to the wealth caused by you than men of our same birth and drop the hostile enemies at our feet. (12)
We return your mind which has gone far and wide in all four directions. You live to inhabit this world. 
The strange and achievable wealth that usha brings is beneficial to the man who gives and praises him. Friends, Varuna, Sindhu Earth and Sky worship this prayer. 
The ritwija people mash the green, powerful, intoxicating and holy monstrosity in the waters for Indra. 
O God who does not drop the water absorbed from the earth by the sun! O Merciful God of seven ganas! You are all as bright as the sun. May you all benefit us in detail. (3)
O burn! I send your waves which are worthy of service and combined with the gods with the mantras of Yajurveda, I send them to my enemies. Those waves reinforce me. I destroy them by the witchcraft caused by this mantra and by covering them with the weapon of water waves. (16)
Indra receives the hygienic and decay-free somadi havi of the host from all around. Indra grows by drinking som. 
With the accumulated merits of many past births, when these yogis engage in sincere endeavor in making further progress, they become purified from material desires and attain perfection in this life itself.
 O Indra! You are going to destroy the enemy. You give us strength because you are the master of great force. You give us the same wealth and strength as the state of our yajna. You give us such power that we can defeat our enemies in the struggles. 
O graceful Indra and Varuna! I invite you again and again in this yagya through food and praises. The juhu 
 O wind! You secretly have nectar. Please give us that secret elixir hidden for living. 
After attaining knowledge, the tattva gyani says, "I have attained the earth and the earth from all sides as soon as I have tattva gyan and I am the first being and material substance created from Brahman. Just as people close to the speaker hear and understand the voice immediately, so this Divine being is the nourisher of all in the world, willing to nourish everyone and as a global leader. (4)
O Indra and Mon! Send armaments around the space. You may destroy the places around the demons by agni, torturous, attacked, unarmed and made of stones by the weapons of the destruction. This will cause those monsters to flee silently. 
O Lord of the Gentlemen Indra! The pleasing, the bright, the squeezed, and the mon we have given you goes into your stomach. 
O Hundred and Indra! We wish all your praises in the sacrificial karma that destroys sin. O Indra! You are the destroyer of enemies in the war. (3)
I praise all the herbs like Ashwavati, Somvati, Urjayanti, Udojas etc. for destroying this disease. 
O agni! You are bright, as a fruit of this, may I become prosperous. O agni! You are a sharp form, that is why wear fast in me too. (4)
All the gods who rejoice in the vast sky, all the gods who are as light as the sun, the father of that name and the deities worthy of the yagna who come when called, O chariotavan agni! Which are yours who are ass. 
O Indra worthy of praise by the praises! You are satisfied with the streams of the madman soma. Drink the mon squeezed by us. We get only the grain you have increased. 
According to folk belief, the one who donates panchapoop i.e. five-faced and white-footed sheep enjoys the fruit that does not end in the worlds of the sun and the moon. (5)
Indra, the ruler of the gods, should make the enemy army abyss and kill it with his glory. May Agni Dev take away the power to see from their eyes. Thus the defeated enemy army should go back. (6)
Vrithra's attendants wanted to wage war with the army of the flawless Indra. Men of superior character inspired Indra to war. Just as the impotent who wage war with the Knights escape, so they fled the simple paths, thinking of their weakness, humiliated by Indra. 
"I have received sixty thousand and ten thousand horses, twenty hundred camels, ten black horses and ten thousand brown cows at three places from The Ashwaputra Prithushrawa. 
The ritvijs by which various yajna related deeds are performed. Those who protect the praises by pronouncing with their mouths, food is placed on the kushas laid in the yajna by those ritvijas. 
O Indra! Your horses join your chariot with our chanting of mantras. They take you to the place you want. May those horses of yours bring you into our sacrifice, so that you may hear our call. (2)
O aschinikumaro! Sit in a chariot with beautiful wheels and be pulled by well-weding ass and listen to the praises of the two stoetas. Did not the brilliant ancient sages tell you not to harm our instincts? 
We become good-minded and wealthy by the grace of the sun. We should get money in sunrise by his grace, we should be rich in midday and sunset by his grace. (37)
 O Indra! Wherever we live, we take out time and money to perform yagna for you. Apart from you, we have no close, no father-like assistant 
We have sent the agni worthy of worship in the morning and evening as an angel to the ancestors. O agni! Give our desires to your ancestors. O agni! They should consume those hives. After this, you should also consume the havi that has been given to you. (65)
O agni! You may gladly carry the havan to be happy by drinking somras to the great, the one who walks everywhere, the one who knows the yajna with the havans, the one who receives the haavya and the great fold goddess by the paths that the devas receive with us. 
Indrani said, "The beloved Havi Vrishakapi, made for me by the hosts, was contaminated. I'll cut off his head soon. I don't want the happiness of this vicious. Indra is the best. 
O Indra, who finished the yagna in nine or ten months and wished to perform the best speed, by the seven meritorious sages of the Angiragotri, with the word shobhan, stung by a hymn with the word shobhan! Clouds are afraid of your words. 
O Jativeda Agni! Cut off the skins of monsters. The violent thunderbolt hit them with heat. You vary the body parts of the monsters. Meat-seeking carnivorous animals should eat their distinct bodies. 
Hey Mon! You flow downwards from water, rays, herbs and stones. 
O aschinikumaro with sacrificial wealth! A woman named Surya was riding on your chariot. Get all the things you want. 
O husband! Even if you disappear from my sight or go across the river away from me, this herb named Shankhpushpi will bring you to me as if someone is tied up. (5)
O rain-fed Mon, Mon, going mashed and filtering on the dashapavittra made of sheep's hair! You make the word in dronakalash. O Pawman Mon! You go to the clean place of the gods together with cow's milk, curd. 
Saraswati Devi is an inspiration for the truth, the word and the path of truth. They are going to warn the Sumatis. Wear Saraswati Devi Yagya. (85)
O agni! May all our wishes come to fruition. May you make us rich, the best brave sons, strong and wealthy. May we get from you the dyuti (brightness) that is always ajar and immortal. (74)
Others, engaging in the yajña of cultivating knowledge, worship me by many methods. Some see me as undifferentiated oneness that is non-different from them, while others see me as separate from them. Still others worship me in the infinite manifestations of my cosmic form.
Indrani said, "O Indra! Just as a bull with sharp seags delights in the roaring cows, so do you delight with me. May the word of the term of the term be beneficial to you. May the desire of love, the desire of Indrani, squeeze the somras of you do good. Indra is the best. 
The bright indra walks gracefully in his people and has extended the lineage of my sage Sheen. 
O Indra! In this yajna, mutually competing and pleasing praises go to you. May the path of your wealth be on our side. May we be happy by your grace. 
Intelligent agni grows with meritorious people, adorning their body with ancient and beautiful stotras. 
O o o ladies! You free us from the disorders caused by bad weather and contaminated water. Please also cure us from the disorders caused by not following the six disciplines. (90)
O God! For Yama, a woman capable of the rule should be appointed. A woman named Avtoka should be appointed for non-violent people. A person who knows the time arrangement for Samvatsar should be appointed. For Parivatsar, the virgin should be appointed, for idavatsar, the dynamic, for the anuvatsar, the gyanvati, for vatsar or anuvatsar, the old woman with white hair should be appointed. For Ribhu, friendship should be made with the one who is not defeated. Special religious scholars should be appointed for the purpose. (15)
 O agni! O Indra! Please please host. You help them. Somerus is enlightening. From that we perform yajna. Please accept that someras. 
O Vasa Gau! Agni entered you and Soma also entered you. Parjanya, that is, the cloud, dwelled in your n and lightning in your udders. (7)
 Indra is a saviour. We want to get food from our intellects. Just as the carpenter humbles the wood with his workmanship and adapts the wheel to the car, in the same way, we want to adapt Indra Dev to ourselves with our praises. 
O nastyos who receive praise! Drink the somras, the instigator and the intensely intoxicating somras.  
O divine chariot! You are the vajja of Indra, the one who walks before the maruts, the womb of a friend and the navel of Varuna. In this yajna, you accept the havan while watching the yajna kriya. 
 O Mon! Like the rain from the clouds, please shower nectar for us with your holy sweet streams. 
All the gods meet in the yagna of Soma without enemies and become worthy of desire.  Ramansheel dev consumes Som. 
May the day, night and the morning protect us from the sin caused by the oath. May those Som Devs free me from sin, whom people call the moon. (7)
O grain giver agni! we praise you, the sustainer and creator of the Medicines of the whole world. You go in a chariot of Davagni near dry trees. You belong to human beings. 
O Swami Indra, the son of The Demon! Come close to us hosts from a nearby country and from a distant land and accept our praises. (8)
Wealthy and beneficial goddesses on the way should benefit you. O king! Water goddesses of many forms come together and be better for you and unanimously call you to your nation. There you should be strong and happy and live a hundred years of life. (7)
The masters of beautiful horses and the leaders of war follow us and gather in the battlefield and call upon us. We are the ones who fight as indras and blow up dust with the force of the enemy. 
Don't stop listening to my ears properly and listening closely. May my eyes be full of Garuda's ability to see. (5)
I follow Brahman. May he give me wealth and give Brahm tej. (40)
O Indra! Your light is the perfect and desireable of strange sacrifices. Your praises are wealth-giving and unbeatable to the psalmists. Dusyu Rishi pulls the neck of the cow with a rope made according to the season. 
O Bhava and Sharva! You have created groups of many creatures in the beginning of creation. After this, by producing sufficient amounts of semen in them, those who are the masters of the two-legged men and four-legged animals of this world, they should redeem us from sin. (4)
O woman who is against me! I make the place inside your vagina, that is, the uterus, unfit for conception. That is why you do not even get a girl child. You don't even get a son and a child. I make you childless like a mule. I cover your uterus with a stone. (3)
 O sun! You publish the incarnations. You measure the day by night. You also illuminate heaven and space world with your light. 
Those who are eleven in the divine space i.e. the middle part of the god named Aditya, they should consume Havi while performing this havan. (12)
The hooves of a rambhat Brahmin's cow are like thunderbolts. (9)
O agni! We believe that you happen. You are a worker and giver. You are rich, a son of courage, omniscient and a Brahmin. You know everything about us. You go upstairs in our yagna. You are the support of all. You drink alcohol. Drinking alcohol is desirable to you. You are enlightening. We offer ghee to you Brahmagyani. (47)
I praise the same richesman and the agni that oppressed the unequivocal and the warlords who made the people in darkness without light by pleasing them with simple pathgamini with their wisdom. 
O fire! Make those revered and sacrificial gods a wife. O Sujihw! Give them som drink. 
Rhinoceros have been prescribed for Chaishwe Dev, dogs, donkeys and lions for demons, pigs for Indra Dev and lion for Maru Dev. There is a law of chameleon, papaya and shakuni for Sharvya Devi and pure antelope for all gods. (40)
This man attained perfection through this abhichar karma. May this act of action be of beautiful sacrifice. O Som and Rudra! You are sharp-armed. May you make us victorious in this war and give us happiness. (5)
I wear this gem, wishing to attain the age of hundred. May this gem protect my nation, force, animals and horse. (12)
O Desertion! When you walk by wearing ornaments made of gold on the chest, you make the waters juicy and the medicines pleasant. O leader, Marudgan! In the land where you drop rainwater, nurture the people with strength, food and wisdom. (2)
O Somrupa Food! We feed on your yew and the substances made from the cow' s. O body! You become fat. 
The Brahmins were their faces. The kshatriya was made arms. From both their thighs came the Vaishyas and from the feet the Shudras were born. 
O agni! Get ready and kill the mightier demons one by one than us, invent your divine brilliance, make the bows of the demons who plague the creatures inferior to the cord, and eliminate all the enemies defeated or undefeated by us. 
O God! To end the muscle power of the asuras, the violent arrow you shoot, I cut the arms of my enemy with the havi given to that arrow-form deity. (2)
 O Mon! You are holy. Please offer the best rasa waterfall for Indra. 
The agni is illuminated in all directions in its constant flames, in such a way that the sun is adorned with its rays. 
It is I who take the form of the fire of digestion in the stomachs of all living beings, and combine with the incoming and outgoing breaths, to digest and assimilate the four kinds of foods.
The ann are friends when they are ignited. He is along with a friend and becomes Varuna, the knower of beings. They become friends, adhwaryu, danshil and vayu and are friends of rivers and mountains. 
O sun! You are very great. O Aditya Dev! You are so great. Being great, everyone sings the glory of you. In fact, you are great among all gods. (39)
Thus, Indra, who has wealth and true wealth, makes the gods and human beings a special dynamic by his own force. O Indra, who has horses called Hari and the doer of various deeds! The whole world is in your hands. Ritwij quickly describes your glory. 
This sacrifice should be well received for verses named Gayatri, Yushnik, Anushtup, Brihati, Rekha, Trishtup and Jagati. (1)
O agni the best of the sages and the brightest of the Angiragothians! We pronounce your acceptable and pleasing hymn. 
This hymn! He accepted that. You also accepted it. We provide special conscious beings to those who harm conscious beings and to those who do not perform yajna. (6)
O Son of God! You shower the flowers. Whoever is evil, who is our enemy, should not make us suffer. (82)
O colic patient! I make poisonless and spineless medicines for the hundreds of arterial veins that are located in your hands, feet, etc. (2)
O stotao! Perform the rituals of the yajna without destruction, wealth and according to the seasons of shobhan-yajna with praise. Indra, who goes towards the yajna, kills the child of the dry asura and wins the water of heaven. May Indra and Agni kill all enemies. 
Hey Shanruo! Just as both ends of the bow are tied with strings, so I bind you with loops. This is the reader! Forbid them not to speak in the middle of my words. 
O Brahmanaspati Dev! The anti-God enemy who considers us worthy of slaughter, subdue him to me, who squeezes soma rasa. (1)
 O agni! You give divinity to man. You are the head of the yajna and would have for humans 
Who are these kantiyukta leaders, living in a house, sons of Mahadeva, the marudgans of man-hit and shobhan ashwas? 
O agni! Please drink somers as per your wish according to the season. You are a money giver. You also wish to drink Somras in the yajna. Be reputed to drink somers. (22)
O thunderbolt Indra! When you become a guide, the best praise and the great yajna are performed. 
O Vajgana, Ribhuo, Indra and Aschinikumaro! You should promise us a large amount of money and food to give to the people of praise. 
The steadfast will by which one holds to duty, pleasures, and wealth, out of attachment and desire for rewards, is determination in the mode of passion.
O Indra Dev! You are the destroyer and protector of the universe. You come to us. Please come with your great glory and protections. (65)
O agni! You protect the man who comes to you by a chariot containing beautiful horses and the property worthy of yajna, you are a friend of the man who welcomes you in order. 
All the devas became frightened when agni hide in the cave with all the heavenly wealth. As soon as the leaders and the wise deities praised Agni through intellect-made mantras, they attained Agni. 
Swaha for age enhancement from yajna. Swaha for life increase from yajna. Swaha for apan growth from yajna. Swaha for vyan growth from yajna. Swaha for the increase of sacrifice from yajna. Swaha for equal growth from yajna. Swaha for increasing eye force from yajna. Swaha for increasing the karna force from yajna. Swaha to increase the strength of speech from yajna. Swaha for increasing mind force from yajna. Swaha for self-force increase from yajna. Swaha for increasing the force from yajna. Swaha for Jyotirmaya Yagya. Swaha for self-published yajna. Swaha from yajna to yajna vriddri. Swaha for forging from yajna. Swaha from yajna to trin vriddri. (33)
O Lord! May you please the one who wakes up in the morning, the protector of the people, the ever-moving and self-sufficient holy agni with praises. Agni always comes to the yajna from Dyulok and eats the faultless havya. 
O Stotao! No one can do indra's violence. Take refuge in Indra, who blesses you friends. (4)
O you, the poor who make evil words and commit violence like Manduk! When you go at a fast pace, all of Indra's enemies are destroyed and fall asleep like a bubble. 
 We invite Indra to the yagna performed for the gods. Both at the beginning and the end of the yajna, we invite Indra. We invite Indra only for money gain. You come soon. 
We have an unbeatable and famous force like an elephant. May all the great and famous radiance that has been born from the body of Devmata Aditi, along with All Dev, Aditi, give me that glory and fame. (1)
Along with holding the earth and space like the sun, fire has also held the sky through meaningful mantras. O Agni, the swami of all food! Protect the favorite places of animals and go to such a place which is unfit for the communication of cows. 
This Kalyani soul is devoid of old age and is immortal even after living in a dying body. The soul for which the body is built sleeps in it. That body is old. (26)
O agni! You live among the beloved of air, the navel of Varun Dev, the horse of knowledge and the water. You are going to mark the baby, green, watery mountain of the rivers. You are the ultimate Vyomvan. Don't do violence. (42)
 O agni! You are the emperor of yajna. Just as the horseman loves a horse, so we love you and greet you. 
The other gods are part of Vishnu, attainable and desireful by the havans in the yajna. Rudra gives us his happiness and importance. O Ashwinikumaro! You come to our house. 
O very young agni! Do not subdue us by powerful enemies human beings and evil seekers. Protect us through violence-free, tearful and happy cradles. 
O wood, both in the form of a ukhaal and a muslin! You're both the ultimate beautiful in appearance. Shobhan in collaboration with innovative mantras prepare the sweet somras for both of you Indra. 
I defeat the demons by force and take possession of the wealth of those demons. I kill all hostile enemies. May my desired fruit-related resolve and happiness prosper. (4)
Oh, Usha! You, according to the rays of the sun, give us such wisdom, so that we can do our welfare through the deeds of yajna etc. By being called by Us, you destroy the darkness. We hosts have many types of property with wealth. 
O aschinikumaro! You gave the sage the leper-shy sage a woman with bright skin and gave a sharp eye to the hapless ear to walk due to being visually impaired. O work years! You gave ear to the deaf son of the nation. These actions of yours are worthy of praise. 
By eating the bodies placed on the Kushas, the ancestors were satisfied and they staggered their bodies. After this, they started praising us. We beg those satisfied fathers for the boon we want. (61)
 Somerus is divine. It is dear to the gods. It has been discovered by the gods for the gods. Atharva rishis have mixed cow's milk and prepared it for the host. 
O water! You are the mascarnator of Kshatriyas. You are the womb-keeping membrane of Kshatriyas. You are the navel of Indra Dev. You are the destroyer of Vritrasura. You kill enemies like friendly gods. You kill enemies like Varun Dev. You give wisdom to enemies. You hurt your enemies. You scare the enemies. Please protect you from the east direction. Please protect (this yajna) from the west direction. Please protect (this yajna) from the north direction. Please protect (this yajna) from the south direction. (8)
In the same yagna, three types of kalash hold the somras and all the three spoons are also full of gold. 
O Indra! On the occasion of Godan, husband and wife who wish for food attract you to pay attention to you and give you fruits. You know both husband and wife who go to heaven. At that time you reveal your charming and helpful thunderbolt. (1)
O aschinikumaro, the leader and leader of the truth! Sit on a chariot full of horses in the morning, running in the morning and beeful. Sitting on the same chariot, you go near the sacrificial people and to the sagely house of the praiseor. 
Those who are freed from the three gates to darkness endeavor for the welfare of their soul, and thereby attain the supreme goal.
O lord of the horses, agni! Give us a house with such a beautiful child, which you are constantly visiting, growing from the son of the relatives, to which you come daily. 
Oh, Usha! You come up with Shobhan Tej. The cows with full trunks are running on the route. 
O aschinikumaro! Both of you have fixed one wheel of your chariot to make the form of the sun bright and with your power you move around in the realms with the help of the other wheel of the chariot to determine the time of the human beings. 
O Vishwavasu! Get up from here. I salute you. Want another girl with huge buttocks and make her a wife and meet yourself. 
Just as the sun heats the earth, so the kings with great armies hinder their enemy by the force of the devas. 
O fire from wood! Call the gods for the host who lays kush in the yajna, for you are our praiseworthy. 
O air! You come to our yagna to fulfill your wish and eat the havya from hundreds and thousands of horses called Nyut. The holy and rising sun created by Ritvija with his hand-made glorious mono is your part. 
Bad deeds like theft, drinking sura, etc., sins resulting from them, true speech, yajna, great fame, strength and oz related to Kshatriyas entered this body. (20)
O agni! You fill the earth and the sky with the bright and inscrutable rays like the Sun God. Just as the sun on the way destroys darkness, so agni removes darkness. 
The frogs were sleeping in a pond like dry leather. When the water of heaven rains on them, they begin to say the same words as the calf cows. 
O great name-bearing, delightful, full-faced with ghee offering, ignited and enlightened agni due to the prevailing radiance! Host enjoy to get you installed regularly. 
Just as the gambler sees the opposing gambler challenging himself and catches him, Indra defeats his opposing warrior by making various wars with him. A person who does not skimp on wealth by the desire to worship the gods, the mighty Indra makes him rich. 
Indrani said, This deadly Vrashakapi thinks of me as a husband less. I am indra's spouse, the mother of brave sons and the friend of the maruts. Indra is the best. 
 O Indra! Humans from all directions east, west, north and south call you for help. You are going to destroy enemies. You are called by praises for Anu and Turvash. 
O agni! For me you make the grains especially pure. Oh, God! We give you food to the people. Let us host and stota both be eligible for your donation. Always follow us by welfare. 
It is the same Usha who wakes everyone up wearing a new age and destroying the darkness hidden by her brightness. Usha walks ahead of the sun like a shy young woman and reveals the sun, the agni and the yajna. 
Savita Dev, please wish earth for your body. May they be pleased to connect the earth with animals. (2)
We praise our father Indra Dev. They are great and strong. They killed Vritrasura. He established his power in all three worlds. (7)
O Indra! You touched the heavens and the earth and gained them. Born of seven friends, you later become their enemies. You fought with the widestudies. (10)
O all-inspiring Indra! Make our glory among the gods excellent in the same way that you have put the sky capable of raining above all people. 
A dasa named Namuchi made women his means of war. What can the whole army do to me? Thinking of this, Indra kept his two beloved beauties from among them in his house and went to fight with Namuchi. 
Having seen your many mouths bearing your terrible teeth, resembling the raging fire at the time of annihilation, I forget where I am and do not know where to go. O Lord of lords, you are the shelter of the universe; please have mercy on me.
 O Indra! You are undefeated and always defeat enemies. Please your horses to take you to the yagna place. In this yajna of humans, sages are singing praises. 
All hosts, the guardians of the yajnakarma, being holy and putting their mind into the work of the high-wealth mon. 
O Father! For you, this is the self-sufficient. (77)
O Sun God! You appear before all human and divine subjects. You rise directly to see everyone. (20)
O agni! This is your native place. With this, the host wakes up to the deeds of the season. Please know them and increase our wealth. (56)
Rudraputra, the creator of water and the ever-young deserts who want us to come from Jhuloka, let there be so much influence in our praise. 
Those who grind and drink the soma form medicine, they consider agni to be the one who drinks soma. Ordinary beings cannot eat the som that the knowledgeable people know. (3)
O Indra! Brave, hostile, victorious and angry in the war, the warriors are not ready to fight with you. O Indra! None of these people is equal to you. You beat them all. 
 Indra has kept heaven and earth like skin with his oz. 
Avayamrutta worshiped through the praises of the Maruts who hear the call of the worshippers from heaven, the bright and the adornment, whom no one is able to drive out of their place, and the rivers that are revealed by themselves that make the flowing. 
May Indra, the completeer and called by many, cross us skillfully from all the enemies by boat. 
May agni be your protector in digestion. Indra protect you from the east, Marudgan from the south, Varuna from the west and Soma from the north direction. (24)
O special seer Indra! Let this mon be covered like a woman and go near you. 
The man who wears havi, who does not perform the rites of Someras for Indra, his wealth moves. Indra includes him in his enemies and strikes him with a thunderbolt. (5)
 O agni! Mindful human beings hold you. From eternity the light of you to mankind is illuminated. You are published in the ashram of knowledgeable sages. Prajapati installed you in the Dev Yagya place for the host. We all greet you. 
All the creatures that come in front of the present agni nearby run behind in this way, just as the cowards run from the front of the fighting knights. The flames that destroy the agni water known by all hold within themselves. The principal force of the gods is the same. 
The sage said, "O Indra! At the time when I go to war with those who do not worship godly and only those who are engaged in rearing my body. At that time, I cook the meat of the bull together with the ritwijas and in fifteen days, i.e., every day I will give it to the heavily drunk somers for you." 
For the sake of war, Tatva had made for these Indras a thunderbolt with a virtuous deed and an easy to throw towards the enemies. While committing the violence of the enemies, Indra, endowed with splendor and force, had pierced the essence of the vritra with the violating thunderbolt. 
 Delicious and sweet somers have been prepared for Indra's drinking. That Someras flew to Indra with his full-fledged streams. 
The Angiragotrian sages like Medhatithi etc. had uprooted the mountain that stopped the cows through yajna and they had reached out to their cows. Those yajna leaders had happily found Usha. The sun god appeared when agni was created by Aranimanthan. 
O Maruto! Just as you have known our friendship many times before, know this time too. At the navel-like altar of the earth where we meet Havya, May Devmata Aditi befriend us. 
O agni! You've been interrupting monsters for a long time. The monsters didn't win you over in the war. You destroy the meat-eating monsters altogether. They cannot escape your divine weapons. 
O agni! You come close to our sacrificial animals, yajnabhoomi, vanaspati and herbs by night and day. O Visves who give the abode! You be the protector of our sacrificial deeds. 
O agni! Save this man of mine from sin on the basis of disease. This man bound by sin traps who regularly delirium, so give you more of the havi part for you. Thus make it frenzy-free. (1)
 Indra is the master of the mind. They ruminate in the mind. For such Indra's drinking, someras is refined to give the item. 
O Indra! Give me shobhan shakti, beautiful horses and good cows. I had already praised the same as would have been in the yagna to gain knowledge. 
He sits in the mouth of the Brahmaspati and certainly speaks the holy mantra. Indra, Varuna, Mitra and Aryama Dev reside in that mantra. 
O agni! All the god, without death and blameless, receives havan as a devotee of the sacrifice put in your mouth. Humans also taste food with your help. You live in creepers, trees, etc. and are born holy. 
When Usha destroys the darkness, in the yagnas of today's coming days, we call you by the praises. O untruthless and the leader of heaven, Aschinikumaro! Wherever you are, I call you for the welfare of the best-giving host. 
O great, the juice-shedding and the guardian of all, Mon! Be pure by you targeting all the bodies of the gods. 
O Indra! You give us the money that lives with a stable person and which is filled in a long bag made of cloth tied in the waist. (2)
O Indra! Protect us today, tomorrow and the day after. O Lord Indra! We protect the psalmists all the time of night and day. 
O polymorphic aschinikumaro! You gave the sage Pedu the giver of wealth, the giver of the fast-moving millennium, the power, the ashkya, the devil, the protector, and the protector of the enemies. 
For such a person, in the west direction, there are land women, humor-admiring, science clothes, day turbans, night hair, kiran kundal and stars gems. (19)
The oz, tej, brahma, vani, senses, lakshmi, dharma, vedas, kshatra shakti, nation, havi, yasha, might, wealth, age, form, name, fame, eyes, ears, milk, juice, food, agni, truth, ishta, purta, praja etc. of that Kshatriya are all taken away. Who kidnaps a Brahmin cow. He reduces his age. (5)
Work must be done as a yajña (sacrifice) to the Supreme Lord; otherwise, work causes bondage in this material world. Therefore, O son of Kunti, perform your prescribed duties, without being attached to the results, for the satisfaction of God.
May Ekpad Dev, who is not born and has a stable movable form, give us peace. May the god and ocean named Ahirbudhnya give us happiness. May the god named Apanpat give us peace and be the one who overcomes sorrows. May such a page protect us whom God protects us. (3)
O you world! This is a sharply drunk, juicy and cheerful mon with us gritsmadvanshi rishis. Drink this beautiful mon. 
O peepal tree! You eliminate these enemies. O tree of well, you eat all these moving enemies. The enemy should break like a castor tree. You kill them with the blow of your wood. (3)
 O agni! Sit on a high pedestal for our protection. Rise like the sun and give us food etc. That is why we invite you to praise with good hymns. 
O Ashchini Kumaro! Brahmins describe your deeds. Consider all those deeds done by Maharishi Kanva. (3)
O revolutionary Mon! You go to the revered Dashapavitra with the desire to perform the yajna and walk like a horse that goes to war by washing it with water. Hey Mon! You go to Dashapavitra together in the water. May you destroy all our sins and make us happy. 
With Brahma Radiance, I wear this gem. This gem is welfare for me. This gem has no enemies. This enemy-killing gem has demoted my enemies. (30)
At the beginning of the Ritvij Somayag, the host's eyes are applied to the eyes. We refine it in four plates, establishing it as a soma that rises at the time of the growth of the ocean, sees it by rays and protects the luminous moon. (18)
O Ida Devi! And hey Aditi Devi! You come here. You wish to come here. O you want! You come here to fulfill our wishes. (27)
We should get protection from friends and enemies. Let us not be afraid of direct and indirect people. In the day and at night we get abhaya. All directions should be of equal interest to me as a friend. (6)
Salutations to all the ancestors who were first received by Pitarlok and who have now gone there, who are still in the earth and who are in different directions. (46)
Hey Ritvijo! Go in front of Indra to drink somers and praise him. That sompan itself increases Indra. 
O Maruto! Slow-moving ashchas bring you to the yagyashala. You also come here by means of speedy movement. We have created a huge space for you to sit in the form of yagnavedi. We have laid kush on it. You sit on those cushions. Sit there and drink someras and be happy. (2)
Indeed, they feel drawn toward God, even against their will, on the strength of their past discipline. Such seekers naturally rise above the ritualistic principles of the scriptures.
O you who have true success, do real deeds, are the ones who are discouraging and the lord of all, Mon! You utter yajna, truth and reverence and pour down the juice for Indra, embellished by the devposhak host. 
O master and very young agni! You give mercy to praise and deliver him from all sins. He begins to see a thief and the enemies of the unknown chihuns turn away from him. 
Just as water in the form of a river pleases the ocean, so make the divine water king powerful. Just as the mother embraces the son, in the same way, water makes the king powerful to get great good fortune. Decorate the unbeatable king like the present rhino in the water through servants and clothes. (7)
One who knows this and brings food for the guest by reciting water, acquires the ability to give birth to children, gets prestige and becomes the beloved of the people. (10)
The character of the home, Juhu, strengthened the sky, the yajnapat named Upbhuta took up the space and the sacrificial character named Khuva followed the earth. This suva vessel should pay attention to the earth and provide the desired fruit to the host in heaven located above. (5)
O God of agni! Add your gentle horses to the chariot, which lead you properly to the yagnas. 
O condemnable string of bows! Don't lean towards us, but lean towards our enemies. O God! Make our bodies as strong as stones, keep us away from the hostile shortcomings of enemies and destroy the force of our enemies. (2)
They come with the sun shining on the back of the sky. (1)
His stomach is blue and his back is red. (7)
A white cow is raised with one leg holding the calf and the other with food. It goes to a half part and is happy. It does not live in a herd. (41)
He cannot get rid of the loops of the disease. (3)
O delicious and sweet drink! We praise you. You be our protector. 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sixth i.e. the sixth. (2)
Hey, Lord! You were immature knowledge and my ethnic brother in ancient times. At that time you wished for somers worthy of consumption. O sons of Sudhanva! At that time, you had gone to the house of savita, who had been given sompan, by the importance earned from your penance. 
Having realized me as the enjoyer of all sacrifices and austerities, the Supreme Lord of all the worlds and the selfless Friend of all living beings, my devotee attains peace.
The sun-moon, which pervades the aziguas and the bright moon, has permeated the three realms. The wind has enjoyed the happiness of both of them. The devas created divine water to protect the three at the time when they received the sun with the mantras of the Samaveda. 
O arrows left by Indra! Manu's daughter Pershu gave birth to twenty sons at the same time. The one who had a thick stomach, his well-being was done. Indra is the best. 
O Indra! When you go away from many plans for asuras by the early asas, your strength is not defeated by the earth, nor is the sea and the mountains able to stop your chariot. No one can stop your thunderbolt at that time. 
With taking medicine, tuberculosis disease is removed. Like pranavayu, with the medicine pervading the body, the rest of the disease is also destroyed. (87)
Like the Desert, the Kushikgotriya sages who fight with the asuras and originated from Brahma know the characchar, wear a havya and recite the praise mantras and ignite the agni in their respective houses. 
O Lord Indra! You are rich. Sharpen your weapons. Encourage the heroes and the horses to leave soon. You are hostile and powerful. The chants of chariots echoed everywhere. (42)
O ancient Indra! Wishing to protect you, we call you to drink som by the kushikgotriya sage hymns. 
Let the deserts produced by the shining electricity protect us and increase our happiness. 
O Shataudana Gau! Your peacemakers and your sustainers will be your protectors. Don't be afraid of them. (7)
O agni! You are the ones who give knowledge of the people, the most beloved and the best. Sit in the yajnashala, hold on to the praises and the food. 
Ida, Saraswati and Mahi are the three goddesses of happiness. They sat in this yagna without violence. 
O God! Come to us today with a desire to listen to the praises and the verses with a like-minded and consistent view of the psalms. O Maruto and the great Aditi! Come to our yajnagriha. 
We completely remove harima disease from your organs, avva (ascites) disease from your stomach and tuberculosis disease from your conscience. (9)
O agni! In the same way, give us wealth among the people. O mighty agni! Let us not be forsaken by you and be happy and undefeated with the wealth that is constant. Oh, God! You protect us by welfare means. 
I call the son of food and the holy flame to this violenceless yagna. 
This gold is the never-extinguishing light of my way to heaven. This cooked food is my Kamdhenu. I hold the money given in the form of Dakshina among the Brahmins and I make the path of heaven, which is desired by my father, grandfather etc. (28)
Hey Varun! You are Shobhan Dev. In your sea-like palate, seven rivers like the Ganga, etc., fall in the same way as the rays fall in front of the sun. 
These kushas are ancient. Spread across the earth's rivers. These kushas are spread (laid) to be the birajman of Aditi Devta. You can sit happily by laying kushas. (29)
O agni! Come to us in the morning with your defence equipment. Please protect us and deliver the sacrifices to the gods. You give them satisfaction. You are well called. Please accept this soothing sacrifice. (4)
The wealth of the safely established gods, which Indra had obtained by walking on the movement of the gods, was secured by three types of water with three types of means. Protect you by these three types of water, gold, silver and three forms of iron. (9)
O agni with many flames and calling upon the gods! The yajna-able hosts give you money day and night. The gods have also established all beings in the agni like the earth. 
Indra killed the megh who took shelter on the mountain. Taksha created a well-to-do thunderbolt for Indra. After this, the velocity streams of water went towards the sea in the same way that the ramming cows go towards the house of the calves. 
In the creation of the world, the seven sages had a unique collaboration with the creator of the universe. That ultimate power is one. It is dhaata. is the creator. is nutritious. The best. By his grace, all the favored works are completed. They are pleased with Havi. (26)
 O Indra! Just as small paths meet Rajpath, so by your grace, everyone gets the path of wealth. 
The gods who follow all have decorated the sky with nakshatras in such a way that the black horse is adorned with gold ornaments. The gods carried darkness by night and light in the day. At the same time Jupiter got the cows by penetrating the rock group by his power. 
The act that we have attained and become the condition of the dead cow. That is, our wives give birth to a dead child. May all sins related to me be removed and I may get wealth. (10)
O Indra! The hosts who join you, you also destroy with your power the great enemies of them who jump like horses. 
O Mon! You are worthy of worship. We invite you again and again. We worship you with the said mantra. You are an inspiration to horses and cows. We worship you with the mantras of Yajurveda. We want to fulfill our desire. (12)
Those who are the rulers of beings, all the worlds to whom they are dependent, who are God, are great, we receive that great. You accept us. We accept you. (32)
O Mon, being purified by Dashapavittra! You give us all kinds of divine and earthly wealth. We consume money from the power you have given us. May we be able to get the same wealth as the sage Jamadagni. 
O agni! These flames of yours grow excessively as food owners. Wish the cows with hooves by these flames to collapse. O agni! You bring food for the praiseors. 
O agni! Listen to our eulogies by staying with the gods in the yajnashala, add the chariot that showers nectar and bring the parents of the gods, Dyava-Prithvi, to us. Don't leave the gods. You stay here. 
May Indra establish our desired happiness in that gem. O God! To get older you also stay located around this gem. This prayer is to attain the age of 100 years and till old age. (21)
O brave air! Pure and sweet somras is given to you by the adhwaryugana. You add your horses to the chariot, come before us and drink our squeezed somers for intoxication. 
O agni! You should also be kind to me and sit in this house. Stay here too, be a benefactor. You make all directions welfare. Fire! This is your native place. Please be located in this. (17)
The poison that entered the body from the fruit in the arrows, I take it out with the force of mantras. I separate the poison that has been produced from the tree with poisonous leaves, from the coating, from the leaves, from the horn of the animal and from the feces, from the body with my mantra force. (5)
O agni! You should like your brother, worthy of service by Havi, a part of the yagna, the most praiseworthy, the lord of the waters, the son of Aditi, the man who possesses man by giving water, the well-to-do and the reigning Varundev, to the stotas. 
O you who are glorious, revolutionary, homeowners and the eternal agni! You give more food to the god-giving host. 
Indra conquered the enemy army by supporting the angiras who gave heaven, generating days with his brightness and wishing for war with the enemies, and ignited the sun for men like the flag of the day. After this Indra found light for the Great War. 
Hey, it was! Aim at the God of Fire and praise him in sufficient measure. The best of the yajnakartas sat with the Agne Devas near us and on the Kusha. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You come to us wearing gems. O praiseworthy, lord of the golden chariot, Ashwinikumaro, possessed of wealth and knows madhuvidya! You hear our call. 
They sit with trees. (11)
Agni is the good posture of Kush, confirmatory, purifying the wide sky and immortal. Please take strength and age for us from the cows with three calves and the senses. (15)
O agni! You are energetic, omniscient. We delight you with good appreciation. Serve the interest of all of you. The host is born in a safe and superior family by defense means. They offer you annamayi sacrifice. (108)
The moon originated from the mind of this yajna form man and the sun originated from the eyes. Indra and Agni Dev originated from its mouth and agni from prana. (7)
The vegetation called Soma, who is praised regularly and milks nectar, resides in the yagyas, pleasing each day of humans. 
O deserters! Not a single one of us could know the extent of your force even while staying away. You grow like a water by the force of defeating the enemies and defeat them with your power. 
O mon of heroes! We will defeat war-seeking enemies with the help of your force. Give us the money worth choosing. 
O Maruto! Add brightly colored horses or red horses to your chariots. You put the fast-moving horses called Hari strong in carrying the load. 
O enemy, the son of such a tribe and such, I bind you to all these loops of Varuna. (9)
O sun with special sight! Let us become Chiranjeevi and visit you every day. You are the ones who bear great light, the radiant, the seers, the joyful and ascent over the great ocean for the eyes of all those who see. 
All the celestial gods are taking your shelter by entering into you. In awe, some are praising you with folded hands. The great sages and perfected beings are extolling you with auspicious hymns and profuse prayers.
The Maruts sincerely wished to make Jupiter the lord of the cows by getting the cows abducted by the pangs from their deeds. Jupiter, along with his companions, the Maruts, drove the cows out of the cave. 
O Indra! Hundreds and thousands of horses containing brahmas should drink somras to carry you on a chariot made of gold. 
Prajapati, Goddess Siniwali of Amavasya and God of Purnamasi have created hands, feet etc. from the semen part located in the uterus. He made the child of a woman's delivery, that is, the womb separate from us, that is, the child of a son in the woman, eligible to be born after one year. (3)
O teacher! After milking the milk, irrigate the milk that is dependent on the earth.. After this install the agni in the goat's milk. 
Uttam Sarathi sits on the chariot and takes the horses in front of him wherever he wants. O men! Tell the glory of those reins. Going backwards from the horse's mouth, they subdue the horses according to Sarathi's mind. 
The drop of rain falling on my body, fragrant oil and ubtan are going to sanctify me. All the said and unspeaked means of purity are spread over me. My body, covered with the means of purity, should be encroached upon by the sin god Nirtrati and no enemy. (3)
O Sun God! You roam the sky and the earth, creating day and night. You should quickly and happily violate inaccessible places. Those who roam around can not control you by the enemy. (5)
The agni that invokes the gods, who pleases the praises, the satyakarmas, the yagyakartas of the gods, the most meritorious, the vidhatas of the world, the bright chariots, the sons of the force, the ones with the luster of the flames and the ones who manifest their wisdom on the earth are located in our yajna. 
 O Mon! You stay in Dronakalash for the vritrasankar indra. You should remain in the matka for the yagna giving dakshina and yajnakar yajaman in the yajna and remain stable. 
Mountain groups, all the water, the charitable gods, the herbs, and the heavens, follow our wealth. Let the earth protect us. 
The green-coloured Mons come to our yagna, seeing all his loving deeds and throwing his weapons against the demons. 
These are the agnis of adornment! The time when you shine especially near us like the sun. At that time your appearance is well-known. Your brightness comes out of heaven like a thunderbolt. You spread your light like the beautiful sun. 
Those who had built a chariot with beautiful wheels and created vishwarupa gau, which inspired everyone, may the lord of shobhan-karma, the lord of shobhan-anna and the sages with beautiful hands give us wealth. 
O mighty Lord, in veneration of your magnificent form with its many mouths, eyes, arms, thighs, legs, stomachs, and terrifying teeth, all the worlds are terror-stricken, and so am I.
Indra had made the earth and the sky interconnected and wealthy without anyone's help. O Shur and Rathaswami Indra! With the desire to stay with us, move the horses attached in the chariot towards us from the sky. 
For those who consider the cow as the most beloved and serve it, it is brahmajya, it is the statement of scholars. (11)
 O Indra! You attack the enemies from all sides. You destroy the enemies. Your thunderbolt is powerful and your power is incomparable. You killed Vritrasura, conquered and received water with the will of your kingdom. 
At this time, with the inspiration of the Aditiputra Devas, ask for the innovative happiness of The Stota. 
Therefore, I call upon all the generals of the Kaurava army now to give full support to Grandsire Bheeshma, even as you defend your respective strategic points.
 O Mon! You quickly get down to the stream for the gods to drink. You are an alcoholic. You sit in our urn. 
I put the birthplace of agni, the habitat and the shelter wood into the agni. O workable agni! Please call the gods at the time of giving the havya and wear the havya inserted as swaha. 
Indra had killed the enemy who spread darkness in the world by cutting his hand with a destructive thunderbolt. Just as the branch cut with an axe falls, the vritra was sleeping on the earth. 
O teacher! You go in front of Indra with the dull and radiant Somras. The brilliant Indra knows all your desires and fulfills his desires by destroying the enemies. 
The indicators of the day are new when the sun is born and go in front of the ushas. As the sun comes, they distribute the part of the yagna among the gods and the moon gives eternal life to the people. 
The same gods have established by their power the leader of all the sun, the bright constellations in the sky, the dyulloka and the earth. The gods who honor the hymns with wealth like donating money to the poor make the best of human beings. We praise such gods in the yagnas. 
O Maruto! When you say terrible words, at that time the great wide mountains are also frightened and the peaks of heaven also begin to tremble. O Maruto! When you play with armament in your hands, you run as fast as the waters. 
 O Mon! You shine the sun with your 
O Maruto! May all the people be humble to the young king who gave us two red horses and three hundred cows. 
When prana drops water on the vast earth in the form of rain, only then herbs, crops and whatever trees are there, they are all produced. (17)
 O hosts! You request Indra with praises to drink someras. To make them drink som, you become as distraught as the distraught cows become to feed their calves. 
 Som resides on Mount. Those mountains are located on the navel of the earth and their leaves are very big. The rain clouds are their father. They come to the yajna site with cow's milk, water and eulogies and are revered there. 
We make joyful praises like war by aiming at a water-raising global. Just as the collection makes up the chariot, so I perform the rites of the two types of god-calling agni, the host and the ritwiz garhapta and the invocation. 
Vasha means that the cow married immediately appears only to the gods and Brahmins. Therefore, donating it to Brahmins is to protect themselves, scholars say. (10)
These waters are white in color, shining and nectar-like. O burn! When poured by this couple, cook the odan purifying it. (27)
Two identical, two different forms, two black, two red, one khaki-colored, one khaki-eared, one vulture and coke — we destroy all these worms with the power of mantras. (4)
O agni! Krittika Nakshatra should be compatible with our call. O Prajapati! Rohini Nakshatra deserves our beautiful call. O Mon! Mrigashira Nakshatra should be auspicious and worthy of calling for us. O Rudra! Ardra Nakshatra should be pleasant for us. Hey Aditi! Punarvasu Nakshatra is going to give us true speech. Pushya Nakshatra related to Jupiter is going to give credit for us. May ashlesha nakshatra with snake god give us radiance. Magha Nakshatra with Pitra Devta should be my destination. (2)
Where the Atharvavedi host, who took initiation, was sitting on the seat of golden Kushas, Vasha Gi with divine qualities filled Someras in three characters. (12)
O sun! It is true that you are great because of fame. O glorious sun! It is true that you are the great of the important gods, the saints of the asuras and the ones who preach the benefit of the gods. Your speed is great and not going to be jealous of anyone. 
The wretched, moving, fast-moving and radiant Mons walk around killing black-skinned people, you praise them. 
O Indra! Just as you are the only rich owner, so if I too become a man of glory, my hymn will also become a cow.' 
God remained in the womb of Gold (Hiranya). They originated first. They are the creators of all and the sole guardians of all. They have possessed the earth and the best heaven. For which god other than God should you pray? (1)
 O Indra! With many prayers, we have worshiped you and are doing it. We praise you with hymns and mantras. You are mighty. We worship you with full devotion. 
Ritwij praises Indra for protecting and getting praise. O God of Indra! At this time, horses doing various deeds carry you for yajna. 
Slaughtering a Brahmin's cow is a cruel deed. After eating the meat of this, thirst makes thirst. Those who drink the milk of such a cow kept with the desire to kill, that milk makes their ancestors a part of sin. (5)
O Lord! Please make us fearless with what you want. Please do the welfare of our people and animals. (22)
The gods tried to cover the world. The water element is dear to see and is going to see the world, the air element is also visible and world-seeing. The medicinal element is also of the same type. These three elements have been distinguished by the gods to sustain the earth. (17)
Oh, my friends! You come to the milch cow while speaking new praises. Separate his milk-thirsty calves from him in such a way that he is not harmed. 
O Indra! You made your power powerful and killed usha, the daughter of heaven, who wanted to kill you. 
 O Usha! You spread light. The arrival of you gets light in the east direction. Just as heroes shine their weapons, you make the world shine. Mother Usha comes and goes every day. 
Today, somras with mantras are ready to offer indra with hymns in the yagna. Just as the water flowing towards the desert follows humans, so do the havya Indra given with yajna. 
The people well ignite your home-executor and omniscient agni. O agni called by many! You bring the gods of the best knowledge quickly to this yagna. 
May I make your king enter with his wife and people in the tree with his wife and people, which is intended to protect the sea rivers, may that pur give you happiness and armor i.e. protection. (7)
 O Indra! Somerus has become drinkable of you. It has been crushed with stones and squeezed and filtered with sieves 
O God of Agni! You are the eye, that is why give me the power to see. This havan is well done. (6)
I take away the place of Diti's sons i.e. demons and give it to Aditi's sons i.e. gods. They are not going to be great by god qualities and defeated by enemies. Their habitat in the ocean or sky is formidable and inaccessible to others. There is no one greater than these gods. (1)
The ash after cooking the odan is zinc, gold is the color of this odan and lotus is the smell of it. (8)
I call upon the divine, the gentle, the moving, the vast, the womb-like rainwater producing, the vision of the herbs and the sun, who completes the lakes by the water of rain and follows the streams, to protect themselves. 
O Indra! You are capable of crossing space. There you destroy the vritra monster. Your oz is stammering, due to which Dulok has stabilized. (6)
It is also dear to the gods of death that are not defeated. In this world, you have been born for death. That death invokes you. You should not die before old age. (17)
The same period produces all bhuvanas. The same period pervades all bhuvanas. The same period is also a father and a son who produces these bhuvanas. Apart from that period, no fast is great. (4)
O you very young, knowledgeable and sacrificial maruto! You come close to the beautiful praise of the host. Hey leaders! You can so grow and be covered like a moving ray and irrigate the place with extraordinary trees with rain. 
 The full man is with thousands of heads. He is thousands of eyes, thousands of feet. He is capable of encircling the entire universe. Yet he remains. 
Hey Mon! Just as adhwaryu encourages you to be, so do you apply your wisdom to giving them money while being cleansed. When you and Som live together in the yajna, we are fortunate and the lords of wealth with beautiful children. 
I serve those rising and brightly strapped Rudraputras through hymns. The sacred praises of The Stota become furious and equate the force of the Maruts in the same way as the clouds do. 
He attains this world and the hereafter. (13)
O Parabrahma! We follow you, so that you protect us and the hosts. You protect Brahmins and Kshatriyas. You govern the people with religion. We can all follow that path of religion. By walking on that religious path, we can achieve our goal by performing our duty. (14)
O Indra! Don't let the monsters that spread out at night be our possessors. With your help we will destroy them. 
Adding horses to the chariot, carrying shobhan food, confirmation and juice, Ashwinikumar approaches the hymn of the new stota. It would have been, ancient and evil agni! Perform yajna of young Ashwinikumaras. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You eat this yajna and listen to my call. You come to the three saans of this yajna and together with Usha and Surya, accept the food. 
No one stops the protector of the yajna and the sobhan karma-wielding Mon. Soma holds in his heart three holy ones - agni, air and sun. Som, who knows everything, sees all the lokas and suffers the unpleasant people who do not perform the yajnakarma by facing downwards. 
Mantras and samidhas of Yajurveda! Agni Dev, who knows everything, meet you in this yajna. (1)
When your intellect crosses the quagmire of delusion, you will then acquire indifference to what has been heard and what is yet to be heard (about enjoyments in this world and the next).
O Indra! We hold a shining thunderbolt in your arms, increasing your strength of adornment by the psalm. By being sharpened by hymns, you defeat the asuras who harm us with the sun-like weapon. 
O a wonderful and brilliant Mon, who is pleasing in various ways! You give the sweet juice produced from the grain. You are the best in drugs. 
Cover this cloth made of all the fibers and enter that defect in the agni, which you have made false speeches with the desire to get money in gaming or in war. (52)
The embodied souls in this material world are my eternal fragmental parts. But bound by material nature, they are struggling with the six senses including the mind.
O agni that destroys the invincible and the darkness! Protect us day and night from sin and enemies. 
 The deserters have a whip in their hands. We hear the sound from those whips. These voices 
O God of agni! Just as varuna and aryama, the friends who destroyed the enemies, came to manu's yajna, so also sit on the kushas laid in our yajna. 
As I repeatedly recall this astonishing and wonderful dialogue between the Supreme Lord Shree Krishna and Arjun, O King, I rejoice again and again.
Purify the agni and the brightest fast engulf the host in the form of a gastroesophageal for food. By the same swiftness, mature semen reaches the womb and produces a son and motivates him in auspicious deeds. 
O you are pure, Mon! You are squeezed on the dashapavittra that holds the juice for the sake of the gods. The chief priests who desire receive you. All beings offer themselves to you. 
O king! May King Varuna stabilize your kingdom. While lighting, Jupiter should make your nation pole. May Indra and Anine make your nation stable. (2)
I am Bhrigu amongst the great seers and the transcendental Om amongst sounds. Amongst chants know me to be the repetition of the Holy Name; amongst immovable things I am the Himalayas.
Lopamudra said, "O Agastya! I have been engaged in your service for many years in the past, in the night, day and age, while revitalizing the body. At this time old age is destroying the beauty of my limbs. Don't men have sex with women in this stage? 
O Ashwinikumaro! You saved Bhujyu, Vash, Atri and Ushna. The host who gives the greeting receives your friendship. I wish you the happiness you get by protecting you. 
We revere Vishwakarma in this south direction. The mind originated from Vishwakarma. Summer direction arose from the mind. Summer produced trishtup, trishtup from swar sam and swar sam to antrima planets. Panchadash Som was born from Antaryam. Brihatsam was born from Panchadash Som. The chief of all this is the Sage Bharadvaja . With the cooperation taken from Prajapati, we take heart for the people. (55)
Everyone has seen that the great Usha leads to the elaborate yajna. The path of the moving sun filled the sky with light and the sun's rays gave everyone's eyes. The sky-like house of friends, Aryama and Varuna was filled with bright light. Oh my friend and Varun! Both of you hold more of the praiseworthy food. 
The adorned armaments, the radiant, the destroyers of demons, those who guard from mischief, the nurturers of the gods, the creators, the powerful, the ones who support heaven and the holders of the earth, soma nichud. 
This god has green hair. They are like the rays of the sun. You are adept at chariot knowledge, a pioneer, a general, a hero of villages, a hero of a yajna. You are the hero of nymphs. Animals are your weapon. You are capable of killing even the powerful. We bow to Agni along with all the gods. Let them protect us. May they give us happiness. Please hold agni in your jaws all those who hate us and those we hate. (15)
Be it the growth of indra, who, while demonstrating his force, had first increased his glory to drink somers, protected his body by becoming a shanruhanta in the wartime and held the sky on the shisha because of his glory. 
We please the agni with the host haday. Light from the front part of the heart pleases God. He pleases Pashupati Dev with all his heart. We want to please Akash Dev with liver. They want to please The Water God with gurdas. Ishaan wants to please Dev with his heart. We want to please Mahadev from the heart, Ugra Dev from the intestines and Vasishtha with Hanu. They want to get success from the funds of the heart. (8)
It makes a pleasant noise like a water bird. This water is bright. This stunning water is powerful and powerful. (22)
Swaha for penance. Swaha for the heat. Swaha for satiation. Swaha for religion. Swaha for innocence and atonement. Swaha for disguise. (12)
O Indra! When will we tell our friend hymns about your friendship and fraternal love who have defeated host enemies? All the industries of Indra are meant for the welfare of the stoetas. The beautiful body of Indra, similar to the sun dynamic, all want. 
O Indra! Like the yajnaman, the guardian of the Ritvijas in the yajnashala, like the Nakshatrash Chandra going to astachal and like the som in front of us, come to us from heaven. Just as the sons call upon the Father to eat food, so we also call you when we go to Someras. We call the great Indra along with the Ritvijs to accept the havya. 
O Supraniti Devi who gives money to the hosts and this permission! Complete our yajna in such a way that your havan can be proved. It is pleasing and giving opinion. (4)
Oh, the best leaders! Who are you? You come one by one from the distant sky. 
Vrushakpi has made my loved ones weak and the person has blamed them. It is not easy to appear in bad work. That's why I make this glass word. Thus Indra is the best of all. (5)
This vritra had risen up in the sky and covered all the matter, so Indra threw a thunderbolt at him. The cloud-covered Vritra ran towards Indra when he was defeated by Indra, who had a sharp ordnance. 
All the mantras of the Rigveda are used in praise of the enemy-destroying and self-adorning agni. Fire holds all the splendours. 
O agni! Those who praise you grow with sons and grandsons, that is why we also increase by praising you. May our sins be destroyed. 
Jupiter is the first deity. The wise people performed yagna for Indra Dev. Please gracefully provide havi for them. Please satisfy them with the sweet sacrifice of the host. Satisfy them with hota supritikar sacrifice. Please the host to bring them well to the agni. (15)
Oh my soul! Turn these cows to yourself again and again and tame them again and again. Let Indra subdue them to you and let the agni make them useful. 
Oh my god! You have been sharpened by mantras and are skilled in destroying enemies. You get rid of our bow and fall towards the enemy army and enter their bodies and destroy their superior army. None of the enemy soldiers could escape. (8)
I have become the master of these people and ministers, etc., who are hostile, hostile and resolute. 
Sailors for rivers, bancharas (Nishads) for bears, etc., strong majestic for a man as refractory as a lion, undignified for Gandharvas and apsaras, frantic for researchers, snakes, humans and gods, a person skilled in gambling for gambling, a person skilled in gambling for gambling, for advancement, for robbers like demons who pierce hearts for vampires, thorns (obstacles) on the way. (8)
Oh, Dev! Crush with your feet the sadistic body of the evil thief who has taken away our wealth both in front of us and behind our backs. 
O Maruto! Your famous armament stayed away from us. Yagyapatra Maruto! Although we make many mistakes because of being human beings, we are not the targets of your weapons. Your more food-giving grace is ours. 
O very fast agni! Specially spread the rays that hinder the conduits. O agni without violence! From him who wants to be bad for us by staying away or who desires our evil by staying near, protect us. We are yours. No one can beat us. 
All of Varun's assistants with commendable speed see the desha-friendly Diva-Prithvi. They also see poets with karma, determined to perform yajna, wise and praising Varuna. 
O Brahmaspati! No sin or sorrow can hinder what you protect. Even violent and thugs can't make him sad. You stop all the armies that destroy him. 
Just as the clouds make the earth full of all the wealth by rain, in the same way, king paintings please other kings living on the banks of the Saraswati river by giving thousands of money. 
Water holds agni. There is agni in the earth. There is agni in water, in men, in my ashwadi animals. (19)
Brahma of the Ritvijas, the masters of the poets, the sages of the wise, the buffaloes of wild animals, the hawks of birds and the swadhiti of the weapons, go beyond the Dashapavitra, saying the word 'Som'. 
We drive away the kravyada that has entered our horses, cows, goats and veerputra, grandson. (15)
O Indra! We know that you subdue enemies on the occasion of war and are the conqueror of wealth. (6)
On the birth of the yajna, our ancient fathers, i.e., sages and human beings, completed the yajna with the help of the said verses. The former men who completed this yajna, I am looking at them with the eyes of the mind. I believe so. 
This is the name of the vampire! You are the cause of diseases. You defeat our disease and return it. Let the eye disease called Ailay, which occurs by you, go away. O diseases called Bashchu, Bashchuvarna and Niral! You run away from this man's body. (3)
 O hosts! Friends and Varun take the diet of ghee offered as ahuti. Both gods are emperors, masters of opulence, have equal finances. They help the hosts relentlessly. 
The horses of the sun are fast and knowledgeable. They pull the chariot of immortality easily. They should enter heaven with the sun's eye, which is endowed with fruits. (24)
Listen to the words of Tvashta and Brahmanaspati i.e. the swami of this mantra.   Aditi along with her sons and brothers should quickly protect the force without encroachment by our protectors and enemies. (1)
There are fourteen vibhutis of this sacrificial God. The seven would-be adi dheer men complete it by mantras. Who can describe the worldwide Godly yajna through which the gods drink somras? 
O Jupiter! The skin has made you better than the whole world. You are the knower of all the sammantras. Jupiter accepts all the debts of the host who initiates the yajna and removes it. Vais destroy the rebel of the yajna. 
Ten fingers that accelerate the ritvijas and the hands that squeeze the somers hold the stones. The sweet juice of Somlata, born on a high mountain, is pleased. Shavita juice comes out of somlata. 
Oh, Atri! Speak a solemn and dear word to Varuna, who is well-known, the all-famous and destroyer of nuisance. Just as the butcher spreads the leather of dead animals, Varuna expands the space to visit the sun. 
O Indra! Your thunderbolt was arranged over ninety rivers. You demonstrate your dominance by your adequate semen and forceful arms. 
The voices of the psalms praise Indra, whose fame are they sung by those who are interested in singing samgan? Indra is worshiped only by worship-related mantras. (4)
O darbhamani! Burn my enemies and those who gathered the army against me. Burn all those who have ill-will towards me and those who hate me. (7)
O Ashwinikumaro! The gamble of the chariot that carries you is of gold, the axis is of gold and the wheels are of gold. 
Hey whip! The charioteer with the best knowledge hurts the horses on the back and thighs through you. You inspire horses in battle. 
Mind, soul and name pervade time. All these people are happy due to spring etc. (7)
O agni that gives money by Jati veda and praise! In the morning yajna, you should consume our havi and purodash. 
O Indra! People to get great wealth please you with the somras found in cow's milk. You drink somers like gourds. 
I quickly praise the treasure and the strong foster food. Indra had cut the Vrithra asura into pieces with the power of food. 
Our pitars 
O soil of Vulmik! You are the daughter of anti-gods asuras and sisters of devas. This soil of vulmic originating from the sky and earth should neutralize the poison produced by real and movable creatures. (3)
Indra, who attains growth through ancient, medieval and modern hymns, attracts them to him through the yajna that protects the host and covers them with yajna to get new wealth. 
O Indra! The same praises of the will of yajnakarma are purified by your force, by the praises by which you are adorned to become a pramatta. 
 O hosts! Indra distributes abundant splendor in the same way as the sun distributes the rays 
O agni! Leave the ghost which has been given to you in the form of Havi and is being burnt by you after being endowed with self-devotion towards us, you leave it for the fatherland. His son returned to his home after attaining his age. This ghost should be of beautiful power and resides in the fatherland. (10)
O Indra! With the desire to conquer the asuras, the devas fought with the asuras by gaining strength with your help. That's why you have destroyed your enemies day and night. 
I call Indra, a vajradhari and a beacon, the seeker of wealth, in the same way that the father is called the son. 
O Mon! You are the one who prospers the yajna. By your grace, let us be published. By your grace, we may attain immortality. Ascend from earth to heaven. May we be able to see the luminous world of the gods. (52)
O radiant Mon! When you are cleansed, your demonic and intoxicating juice goes to the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair. 
O Rudra Dev! You have thousands of eyes and hundreds of quivers. Remove the mouth of the arrows. The mouths of arrows should be welfare for us. We are good-minded. (13)
O Indra Dev! You attack the enemies and destroy them. You are powerful. We call upon you again and again. (68)
Shobhan Shri wale who knows the relation of Indra are made from the yagnamarga in som karma. 
Indra and agni devas immersed Kamadeva in water with his wife Aadhi i.e. anxiety, because he was suffering in his disconnection. O woman! I am for you torment that Cupid with the power of Varuna, the swami of water. (4)
Tvashta is about to marry his daughter Saranu. The whole world is involved in the preparation of marriage. When Yama and Yami's mother got married to Surya, Surya's wife left the north Kuru country. 
O bright and moving sun! Just as people bring the lost animals out of the forest, so do you find from the sky the yagyaan and the somras with strange kushas. 
O agni! Knowing all the known things, remove the disease of hunger for the life of the host-like people. Knowing the ways of the gods going between the earth and the sky, you must leave laziness and bear the emissaries of the gods. 
You went to Bhujyu in a distant land, being struck by your father, suffering and praying. Everyone wants to get your awesome speed and strange defense closer. 
It is the instrument of agni-churning and the substance that produces it. Bring this world-cranial arani. We will churn out the agni just like before. 
We are the only Indra and Varuna. Due to the importance, we are also the earth-sky with a wide, serious and beautiful form. Scholars, we inspire all beings like a skin and hold the earth and the sky. 
O son of a friend of parable fame! You come to me. I am your father's hymn. 
O agni! You come here. You hold money for us. Host do not disobey your command. Kshatriyas should also be subdued by you. Increase your worship. Your devotees are imperishable. Please increase them. (4)
O the grandson of the force, the protector and the agni that gives the abode! You give great money to the stoes. 
O old land! We salute you. O land of beautiful fate! You are friendly to us. Just as you are friendly to us, so become the one who gives us the fruits. (8)
O agni! You are the yard yard. You are a thousand statues and a thousand places. We worship you for thousands of high speeds. (65)
The stota who carries the praises speaks the word of the streamlined Vedas praising the illuminating Usha. O dhanswamini usha! So, remove the nightly darkness of this hymn today and give us the money of the people. 
After this, the dog became unstable. (19)
O Indra! Just as a pigeon goes near the pigeon that conceives, so you listen to our praises and come to us. (1)
O agni! The hosts of the yajna perform the service to you with the characters called Juhu of the yajna, just as the rain water irrigates the earth. O great agni! For the pleasure of the gods, you adorn all the splendor in the form of black and white-colored flames. 
For the sake of sat i.e. permanent fruit, we hand over this odan form to the heritage deities. It should not be different from us in the exchange form of mutual work and also in the committee. Don't make it other men's food. (46)
O Swami indra of powerful and green or horses named Hari! We should not give up your service, that is, always continue to serve you. O Indra! Protect us with your forces, which no one can stop. O Indra! May we be dear to you among those who chant hymns. (7)
Hey Mon! The major sublimations at this time squeeze the beautification and beautiful juice. O Pawman Mon! You destroy each of our enemies. May your power-giving, dear and intoxicating juices appear. 
May those two mighty and superior gods elevate our people. Oh my friend and Varun! Let us permeate you. May the earth and day and night satisfy us. 
O Indra! You have drunk Mon in the morning. This median savan is also yours. In this sawan, you should be happy while drinking Soma. You fill this whole somerus together in your stomach. (3)
Indra Protect us at the time of hoisting of our flags. Our arrows achieve victory. Let our heroes be the best. Oh, Devas! Protect us in wars. 
O Indra! You produce praises through the same hymns as before and listen to the call of the psalms. You get happiness through somers and give the desired fruits to the host who performs the shobhan karma. 
O Indra with more wealth! I tell you about the growth of your friend and son. Don't let your mind turn from me. 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages named the third conch. (10)
Seeing all his relatives present there, Arjun, the son of Kunti, was overwhelmed with compassion, and with deep sorrow, spoke the following words.
May Dev Mata Aditi protect me from the fear of west direction. Just as the earth given by the giver protects the heavenly consumption of the giver and the recipient of the donation, so be the protector of me. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! Become the one who gets a part in this yajna. (27)
 O Indra! You are inspiring, very stunning, Aditi's son and very strong. We tell the truth that you are very great. 
We were dominated, milky, superior in body and welfare with our mind. May Tvashta Dev hold money for us. Please give us money and make us miserable. (14)
O Ashwinikumaro! This sociable-wise hymn wakes up even before Usha and praises you with suktas. Grow it by food, milk and cows. Oh, God! Protect us forever by your welfare means. 
When they have enjoyed the vast pleasures of heaven, the stock of their merits being exhausted, they return to the earthly plane. Thus, those who follow the Vedic rituals, desiring objects of enjoyment, repeatedly come and go in this world.
The sides of this bull i.e. the parts on both sides are allowed and its followers i.e. the parts running behind it belong to Agni Dev. Friend Dev had said that only the ankles of the bull are my parts. (12)
O Ashwini Kumaro! Please protect this yajna with your power. Please come to this heart-loving yagna with your protective powers. Salutations to all the gods of the sun, heaven and earth. (12)
O medicine produced according to the season! Those who condemn Me may be seven and seventy, seventy-seven, but make my voice sweet, for you are sweet. (7)
With the idea of giving the earth for the sake of human habitation, Vishnu set a foot on it three times. Vishnu's stothas become motionless. Vishnu, who was born shobhan, has made a wide abode. 
O Goddess of Water! Please accept this bhasma and make the worlds fragrant with it. Varun Dev, along with his wives, should bow down to it and hold it in the same way as the mother wears the son. (35)
O agni! The gods with special intellects give fruit to the host who gives the havan. O Rohita, lord of the horse and the praiseworthy agni! Bring thirty-three gods here. 
The hymn, which is subdued by the desired fruit, should be present with praises before the lord of all the paths and the revered sun. Let Pusha sing us with a gold horn and complete all our work. 
Just as kings gather to destroy the nation of another, just as many debts are made on the non-payment of one debt, just as many diseases occur when there is leprosy, such as animal hoofs etc. are collected in the pit or old well by throwing unusable organs,  In the same way, we send our nightmares to the one who hates us. (2)
The flames like the hairs located in the front embrace the fire. Even when the flames are dead, they rise up to welcome the incoming agne, the fires roar again and again, removing the old age of such crests and making them very powerful and worthy of life. 
Hey Mon! You are the protector of our body who will see and sit the leaders of every organ of yajnakarma. Oh, God! We interrupt your vows, yet make us happy by becoming good friends and with the best food. 
Friend Dev is the eyes of Varun Dev and Agni Devta. The sun spreads light in heaven, earth and space. The sun is the soul of the world. For all these gods. Surya Mitra is the eyes of God. They are the eyes of Varun Dev. They are the eyes of agni. They are the eyes of the gods. They illuminate heaven completely with their light. They illuminate the earth completely with their light. They illuminate space completely with their light. They are the soul of the world. Swaha for those suns. (42)
 O Mon! You are holy. You are going to know the procedure of yajna. Please remove the gods and atheists. Your influence is like the gods 
The past world, the future world and this visible world are all men. This man is also the swami of the gods without death and he is also the God of those who have been with the food. (4)
Hey Mon! Your devabhilashani waves sit on the dashapavitra in the place of the yajna. 
O hosts! Your friends serve Indra to find friendship. They want indra's grace while speaking the great hymn. Indra, who holds a thunderbolt in his hand, is a great giver. Worship the great and beautiful Indra for protection. 
Both uttarayan and dakshinayan are bound by these sinful and heavenly suns in thousands of days. All of them keep the gods in them and walk while looking at all the creatures. O Rohit Dev, the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of a learned Brahmin! Make you tremble and weaken and put it in the bondage of your loops. (14)
Hey Indra and Varun! Satisfy us by giving money according to our desire. We want your proximity. 
All the subjects bow down to Indra, who does karma, in the same way as all the rivers bend for the sea. (1)
The bright, the vast, the well-nourished, the most powerful of the food, possessed by the air, located in the solar system, the destroyer, the enemy-wielding, the best of those who kill demons, the deadly of the armament-throwers and the sun-form that eliminates the instinctive opponents appears bright. 
O violent rats and O moths! You create nuisance, that is why the havi given for your destruction is as effective as Brahman. You should run away from this place without destroying our barley etc. (2)
Indra has eight herbs, Yama has six and sages have seventy-seven herbs. (23)
O Ekashta, mother of Indra and Soma! You are Prajapati's daughter. Accepting the desire given by us, you have persecuted us and became rich in animals. (13)
Prosperity, unfriendly i.e. prosperity and humility, friends and enemies, hunger and thirst, all these entered the body of the man. (21)
Our praises praise the soothing, the soothing and falling Mon born in dulok. Like a crying baby, the pure, golden, winged and earthly soma receives our praises. 
Som is very fierce among the fierce, the fiercest in the brave, and the greatest of those who donate more. 
O agni! You wake up to protect us after the present Usha is illuminated and the sun comes out. Oh, O self-styler! Accept Our praises in the same way that the Father accepts the Son. 
O Indra! Let the squeezed somerus enter your abdomen. You fill both your wombs with this. Listen to our call and come here and listen to our praises and accept them. O Indra! In this yajna, drink someras with your friend Marut etc. gods and become satisfied and make our yajna karma complete. (4)
 We should get cows with many colors, large breasts, calves and bulls. This earth is great and vast. It is habitable to you. You get potable water here happily. 
Brahman, whose face has been said, Madhukasha whose tongue has been told and Virat Ain has been said, tell me about that Brahman, who is he? (19)
No one can harm Manu, the leader of thousands of cows and the leader of human beings. Manu's dakshina be famous in the three lokas with the sun. May the age of Devgana Savarna Manu be increased. Let us get food from Manu who does not indulge in laziness in yajnakarma. 
I have heard two paths of fathers, gods and human beings. This world goes on and on, it goes on them. Born to mother and father goes by them. 
O God! Let us never be killed in your yajnakarma. At this time we are going to praise you. 
For the purpose that agni has taken the right hand of this land, I hold your hand for the same purpose. Don't hurt. Dwell with me with people, children and wealth. (48)
The great raining deserts are adorned with glowing fillers and weapons and wield armaments to penetrate the cloud. Like the water flowing yesterday, electricity runs behind the maruts and its light spreads around on its own. 
The one who became the master of the world by power has been praised by the candidates. Indra's methods of giving money are more than thousands or even thousands. 
Man performs yajnakarma with the reverence of the mind, igniting the agni with the help of wood. He increases the agni by the ritwijas. 
The hosts greet and worship the same agni that shines on their own. Those who are willing to give a crushing defeat to the enemy ignite the agni by being. 
Take us away from the enemies who have come to hinder us. Make our path smooth and smooth. O God! It is your responsibility to protect us in this path. 
Just as young men meet ordinary women, so the most fast and great deserts with adornment ornaments are compatible with electricity. The deserts who rain heavily do not forsake the earth and the sky. The gods try to progress the maruts because of friendship. 
Increase our strength with the bright and wealthy Mon Anna. Hey Mon! You fall on the dashapavittra. 
We hosts take the means of yajna at sunrise in the hands of Ashwinikumars. Swaha for agni. Swaha for Pusha Dev. You are wishful. We want to perform yagna for Indra Dev. We sanctify the yajna for them with energetic substances. We sanctify the yajna for them with succulent and sacred substances. Please accept Havi well. Please try to satisfy us. (30)
Since the brothers of Jupiter and Soma, the desireful Jupiter and The Brahma brothers, increase food for the people by raining, the sage Atharva among those people first possessed the gods through the yajna. After this, all the powerful gods and bhriguvanshi sages went and went and went to the yagna. 
Hey Mon! Wish your people as the heads of all the gods who are without death and have attained a better place. That people adorn you, you take care of them. 
O god well- decorated! Like your sons, we ask for the same wealth that many enjoy. O Adityao! We should get that money and get more prosperity through that money while performing yajna. 
 O Mon! You are holy and drunkard. Your juice is forbidden to monsters. Your juice reaches dronalash by filtering it in a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
O ukha! You are the pole and the holder. The omniscient agni first originated here in the yagna. Please bear the blessings for the gods with verses like Agni, Gayatri, Trishtup, Anushtup etc. (34)
Vajradhari Indra had eliminated the life and poison of the snakes whom Indra had killed. We destroy them. (12)
The sun, the dhaja form of the gods, is visible to everyone. They rise and illuminate directions and reveal the day with their light, eliminating all kinds of darkness. The Sun God removes sins. (34)
O Ashwinikumaro! What the ancient people have called you a comforter is the truth. Be able to invite and give happiness to the yajna. 
O Indra! Protect our food-seeking chariot. What work is not good for you? You make us happy to win in the battle. 
O agni! No one can beat you. You know everything. You are the hope of all the creators of the eternal, the great, the kshatra dharma. You make human beings suffering free. You do us welfare today. Please protect us and increase us from all sides. (7)
O son of strength and agni of adornment! We speak praises for you who hold the will. 
 Somerus is fast. He is mind-boggling. Someras is blissful. Somers is cleaned in pots filled with water and added. 
The Supreme Lord said: Both the path of karm sanyās (renunciation of actions) and karm yog (working in devotion) lead to the supreme goal. But karm yog is superior to karm sanyās.
 Just as thieves hide during the day, planets, constellations, stars, etc. are hidden when the sun rises. 
The more powerful, enemy-like power or the worst powerful man of our jati who wants to make us slaves, those unfriendly, the destroyer God Rudra, who makes everyone cry, should pierce with his arrows. (3)
O Ashwinikumar! Sage Rizash had cut down a hundred sheep for the food of his kidney. His father blinded him. O physicians of the gods! You were able to see both eyes unable to see the see of The Lord. 
O Prajapati! The roar of the clouds is your voice. O Creator who showers! You water the earth and heaven with water. Animals survive with the same water and the same rain nourishes food and water. (20)
O Lord of the House Indra! The wooden pillars that block the roof of the house should be fixed. We give the protective force in the body of the somras squeezers. Let the devotees of the liquid somas and those who destroy the enemy cities be the servants of the sages. 
Friends, Varuna and Aryama, give money for us and for our sons. May all paths be good for us and easy to walk. Oh, God! You protect us by your welfare means. 
O Durva! We make the same desire for you, so that you grow in hundreds of thousands. (21)
Then the gods made a seat for him. (3)
O you who make the earth and the sky tremble! Who is bigger than you? Just as you vibrate the top of the tree, shake all directions in the same way. 
I call such Indra in my yajna, who is powerful, vajra-wearing, ahead of wars, fierce, strong and worthy of praise, may that Indra make our paths of wealth beautiful. (1)
O milk! May your sounds pervade in many forms between the earth and the sky and appear to be pleasant. You should be rich in the high word and roar with a high voice to increase the velocity among the friends. (7)
O Gods who sit with the host in heaven! I give this havi part to you. This method brings you all to agni the part of the method. This host will come following that havi-like method. You know this host in heaven. (1)
Vishwa Vayu, Swarglok and Krishnadri Vidharani (holding power) is niveshya (surface part).  (4)
The one who says that as you wish, so does, opens up desires for himself. (8)
Anni Prajapalak is the one who belongs to the gods, like an angel, who chants the deities and listens to the praises. In the same way, agni listen to our praise. 
The gods praise Sudarshan, the God of the earth and sky, the bright color like a rich chariot, the working and admired agni like a friend, installed in the middle part of the yajna. 
 O Indra! You are an enemy. We bring somers to you like a water flow. We offer you a refined somerasa and offer you the seat of Kush to sit. 
O Angiravansh-born Jupiter! The mountain hiding the cows opened up for your welfare and the cows came out. At that time, with the help of Indra, you had flowed the stream stopped by the vritra downwards. 
Ghee was obtained from the sacrifice of that great man, from which everyone is sacrificed. Birds, animals, village animals, animals were born from the same vast sky. (6)
 O agni! We worship you with the stotra that arrives soon. You are stunning. Give us a lot of food and money because you get a lot of money and food. 
O Rudra! Do not touch us through the poison, through the poison and through the divine radiance of electricity. You drop your light-containing armament elsewhere leaving us. (26)
When I sat in the chariot, three green horses carried me well. I used to be admired by people who received thousands of gold coins in the yagna. 
I especially admire the earth and sky of the hosts who have extended the host yajna, who cautioned us in the elaborate yagnas, served by the sons of the gods and the hosts with doy deeds. They give us the best wealth by having a gracious intellect towards us. 
O body! If the little nakul does not finish your poison, I will stone him to death. Thus the poison comes out of my body and goes in distant directions. 
O Shobhan-Nassawale and the homeowner Indra! You sit in the chariot house. The chariot is made of gold, bright, multi-wheeled, efficient and sinless. We both meet in that chariot. 
O you are pure, Mon! You give us money from all sides like go etc. O glorious and rich Mon! You give us great wealth. O wearing Mon! Give me pleasure to my servant through your best knowledge and do not take away from us the money that is worth giving us. 
 Poets and knowledgeable people worship Someras. This sin 
O friend and Varun! You come from heaven and do sompan while committing violence against your enemies. 
O agni advertising the yajna! You're great. Without you, the gods would not have been happy. You become the lord of the chariot and come with all the gods and become the chief and sit on the kushas laid here. 
O men! Go in front of the yajna and walk on the path of yajna yourself like a traveler. 
The substances brought by killing the enemies and the living substances are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, children and all heroic men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and a woman with such a name from this world. He could not be freed from the bondage of arthamas. We wrap up his brilliance, strength, life and age and drop him face to face. (23)
While drinking Someras, Indra finds praises named Stotra, Ukath and Shastra very dear. (6)
The omniscient, wealthy, powerful, great, hostile, sompayi and leaders wear arms in the desert arms. 
I pronounce the importance of the same watery season of Vaishnavar, the same watery ear of which humans serve the electric form of the cloud for water rain. He killed the bandit and dropped the rain water and destroyed the shamber. 
 O Indra! Vishnu came to the yajna. You drank somers after that. You were happy to drink someras with aptya trit 
He gifts and rewards the complete perfection. (9)
 O Mon! Your juice is extracted by crushing with stones. Demons are destroyed by the rising waves of you. Those who compete with us, please destroy those enemies. 
Just as Ashwamayi Veeravati and Kalyani Usha Devi give ghee and milk, so please Prabhat Bela to do our welfare. There is ghee and milk for us. Remove the dark obstacles of ignorance from all sides. May all of you gods always be kind to us. (40)
We call The Deept, The Yajnasadhak, the Crooked Motion and the Revolutionary Rudra for the sake of protection. Let Rudra remove his radiant anger and let us get his graceful grace. 
O Hari, the horse-horse, the inspiration, the one who pleases, the heroic and the rich Indra! There are many things that make you similar. May your ancient praises complete our wisdom.  May Indra and Agni destroy all enemies. 
O Indra with green hair! You were admired by the ancient hosts and wished for the Havi. O green indra! All your food is pervasive, admirable, extraordinary and beautiful. 
O Jativeda and omniscient agni! Just as you have accepted the glory of the earth as the host, just as you have accepted the substance of the heavens, so in our yajna, become the part of the gods and give their share to the gods. You complete our yajna today like manu's yajna. 
The way those who call the gods go to the sacrificial animal yajnashala. Just as the king with true deeds goes to war, so, being holy, Som goes to Dronakalash by staying in water like a buffalo. 
While completing the yajna with a fat animal, the host adds ajya to the yajna through a srucha (chamas). O God of the universe! We should not be possessed by sin without desire and fear of sin. (3)
May the gods I call enrich me with food. In the yajna, sitting near us with the gods, so that we can become disease-free and powerful. (5)
O Maruto! Make us happy by listening to praise. May indra, the most happy, please us. O Maruto! The days we live, the best, the most enjoyable, are the days we have. 
Those who are the holders of the world, jayasheel, raging and aditiputra, we call the same Bhagdev in the morning. Both the poor stota and the wealthy king praise God, saying, "Give us riches worthy of enjoyment." 
The beloved and extremely bright praises praises of The Word Mon. Being pure, mon makes way for your filtering. 
O Indra! You add your famous, jointly happy and wide-rich horses to the chariot and come to drink the somras in this yajna. 
O Indra! Just as there are cones around the wheel, so there were a thousand or five hundred servants around the dasa named Vachi. You killed them. 
A horse skilled in walking goes to such a heavenly place to get close to its mother and father, where everyone can live together. Oh, horse! Today, you are most pleased to come close to the gods, and by your departure, the host of the devotee will receive the best wealth. 
May you give us food, fame, glory and brahmavarchas. We worship you. (1)
I am Ketu, I am the head, I am the one who prevails and invoke sweet words from the mouth of the Master. My husband admires my deeds, not the works of my sons. I've defeated all the stairs. 
O Jativeda Agni! Called by us, you bring the maruts who have different names and forms to the yagna. O Maruto! All of you, along with your means of protection, be present near the yajna, speech and adornment hymns of the host. 
O agni! Be full of samidahas, ahutis, public welfare mantras and shobhan praises. They are the agni! Wish for all the gods while you wish. You drink som with seasons and all the gods. 
O Indra! Let us consume wealth with servants and successes through your best defenses. Oh, King! You are the master of divine and earthly wealth. So give us great, abundant and rich riches. 
O Indra! All those ancient sages were human-benefactors, whose praises you heard. O Dhanaswami Indra! That's why I call you again and again. You are my brother like the Father. 
Hearing our praises, Indra is not in the hands of a host who is firm and unwavering in war, nor does he obey the host, excited and inspired by the bandits. The great mountains are also easy for Indra and even a deeper place cannot escape Indra. 
Tvashta Dev is glorious, dani, disease destroyer, superior yajnakar, shobhadhari and many forms. The rich tvashta with the best semen held powers for Indra. Please accept Tvashta Dev Havi. Please do yajna for them. (9)
 O Pusha! You protect our intellect. Our intellect gives us wealth, horsepower and wealth. 
O night! The ninety-nine Gana deities, the eighty-eight Gana deities and the seventy-seven Gana deities who see the fruits of human deeds, expand your glory. (3)
This thunderbolt of Indra falls for rain from the lower part of the Great Sun Circle. In addition there are other places. The stotas cross those places without any labor. 
O Indra! We praise your ancient great deeds quickly. We also admire your innovative work. Praise the present thunderbolt in your arms. You are the sun. Your ass called Hari are like your flag. We praise them too. 
Just as the arrow left from the bow with a stretched cord rapidly moves towards the target, so all your stalled urine comes out saying words. (9)
I am situated in the great yajna performed by me, who has become the object of getting the divine body through the rules of fasting etc. O agni! With your permission, I should be older than old age and become happy with son, grandson etc. in the world of sorrow-free paradise. (4)
O Vasa Gau! Stories were born from your mouth and strength was born from your neck. A sacrifice was born from your ain and rays were born from your udder. (20)
Those who cry in the disconnection of their wives, sit near them in the yagna, they tie them up in their wide arms and produce children from them and inspire them in the pitruyagna, their women embrace them with pleasure. 
O men willing to be harmonious! May your bodies be bound by mutual affection and hearts should also come close to each other. Your work like agriculture, commerce etc. should also be harmonious. May Brahmanaspati Dev make you compatible with a heart and may god called Bhaga make you compatible. (1)
The well-versed night and day should come together or separately from the light body. May they fill the earth and the sky with the glory that friends, Varuna and Indra, have mercy on us. 
The yellow ones, the all-round dynamic, the leaders of the nights, the young men and somdev alone publish gold ornaments. 
O agni! Please be kind as the sage born in the seed of Gritsamad can be protected by you and can take possession of the riches hidden in the cavity and face the enemies by having the best children. You give a lot of money to the wise and praiseworthy hosts. 
I desire to see those who have come here to fight on the side of the evil-minded son of Dhritarasthra, wishing to please him.
O Maruto! You came from a far away place by your raining chariot after hearing the praise of the sage Ushna. At that time, the earth trembled like a doloka in fear. 
Your enemies will defame and humiliate you with unkind words, disparaging your might. Alas, what could be more painful than that?
The earth is located as a high lamp above the bones of this deceased person. Thousands of dusts should be frozen on top of it. They should become ghee dripping houses for this dust and support it on all days. 
Human beings praise the glorious, the deadless and the very sacrificial agni in human beings in the yagnas. 
O Supreme Man! Shri and Lakshmi are your elders. Both arms are day and night. Nakshatras are the form of you. You have the ability to fulfill everyone's wishes. Please fulfill the wishes of all of you worlds. (22)
Neelshikhand is their vehicle. (16)
O Ritvijo! Be the one who rains from the sky, flows in rivers and as quick in this water-powered yagya karma like other types of water and fast running horses. (4)
O earth and sky! The sinless, unbreakable, unspeakable, violence-free and food-rich wealth that we pray to Aditi, you give the same wealth to the hosts. O earth and sky! Save us from sin. 
Hota performed yajna for Tvashta Dev. Tvashta Dev is good semen, strong and benevolent. Hota performed yajna for Dev Vaidya Ashwini Devas. Hota performed a yagna for Saraswati Devi. Hota performed yajna to heal and please all these gods. Hota performed yajna with the juice of vrik, sura and mand's medicine. This yajna is glorious. Oz, speed, force and fame established in Indra Dev. In this yajna, ghee and milk are obtained for the gods. May the host please perform yajna for the welfare of all. (38)
Indra's charioteer knows the medicine that destroys death bought in exchange for the Matali ratha. Indra has drowned that medicine in water. May water give us that medicine (23)
The form of paddy is used as food in yagya. Godlight spreads from that all around. Plum is prepared as sattu. Barley is prepared as a gloss. They are used as havri. (22)
O agni that carries the wind! You are the messengers of the gods, so come with shobhan praises, giving greetings to the gods. 
O evil agni! All the gods had put on your supreme godly agni in this sacrificial place for Manu. Kanva wore the agni that pleased you with money with the revered guests. Indra and other eulogists who rained also held you. 
I undertake for the life of the agni god with more heat, from whose mouth the sage named Adhati sees the smoke. (2)
We call Indra to get more or a little money. Indra had attacked Vritra Asura with his thunderbolt. (11)
This bow string, which crosses the battlefield, expands on the bow and comes close to the archer's ear to say sweet things, wishing to speak dear words. Like a woman who hugs her husband and talks, this string touches the arrow and makes the words. 
I praise the apsara who penetrates the money by betting and wins in gambling well and gambles well with Aksh Shalaka etc. I call that nymph who always makes a gambling winning mark on the money at stake. (1)
The reason for the origin of cow, ash, man, goat, sheep is the huge charu i.e. the vessel of cooking odan. The sun's sun warms it up. (18)
Worship our fruitful and heaven-touching yajna as the most benefactor, revolutionary and divine of the hosts who praise the gods with intoxicating flames. 
Please wear Devmata Ukha Patra with strength and grace. Just as the mother sits the son in the lap, so please hold the agni in your womb (middle). You are the head (main) of the yajna. (57)
O aschinikumaro! Just as the one at the forefront of the running horses reaches the hardwood first at a certain place, so suryaputri surya sat on your chariot because of the horses that reached the period early. All the gods gladly accepted this, and you have received the gift. 
O Jativeda Agni! You protect us from sin. O agni, the creator of mantras! Protect us from those who want to be offended. 
This somras sharpens my voice when I drink it and gives me the wisdom I want. This is the dhir someras who created the six stages. No creature can stay away from it. 
Agni with shining flames, like Parshu are unique in destroying enemies. Just as water evaporates by coming in contact with Agni, so are the strong objects also ruined. Agni never shows the back like an enemy-ruining archer. 
Indra, who feared the enemies, who quickly defeated the enemies and had the might to defeat the enemies, made his body of various kinds at will, defeated the asura named Takshata with his power and stole the Som kept in the spoon. 
O Lord indra and vishnu of madkaraka-soma! You come before Someras while giving money, the psalms of the psalms and you will get the spoken uwath with glory. 
O revered Rudra! You hold arrows and bows. O worshipable! You have worn a revered and polymorphic necklace. You protect this vast world. There is no one more powerful than yours. 
 May Indra's horses install him on the grass asanas on which we install him in the yajna and worship him. 
Drink the summed somas performed in the yagya karma with beautiful stotras and beautiful mantras of Dravinoda i.e. the god who gives wealth. (4)
Make these stone words, let us praise these stones. Hey Ritvijo! Praise the stones that make the word. O revered firm and some stones that haveten to squeeze! You make a word worth listening to Indra. O somersed stones! You be satisfied with Mon. 
 O Mon! You are vishwapati and pavitra. You flow for the pusha and the citva. You illuminate both earth and paradise. 
The agni of the meat-burning pyre has entered this house of yours. I get them out of the house. I see the second Jathaveda agni and get it for the yagna in the best place. May this agni take my yajna and go to heaven. 
The deep darkness was destroyed when Vritra was killed by Indra and Vritra, who fought with their great power, the heroisms displayed first. Indra is counted first in the reckoning of heroes by his glory. 
 O agni! Your rays are pure, bright and intense. You rise like the sun, then become full light in the sky. Like a son walking with the mother, you live with the hosts. 
When the squeezed Mons combine with the shaktirup curd of the cows to manoeuvre the shur Indra to fulfill the host's desire, the beautiful waves of pure Soma go into Indra's stomach. 
Hota performed a yagna for Ida Devi. Hota invoked Ida Devi. Hota performed yagna for the growth of Ida, Saraswati Devi, Indra and Ashwinikumar. Hota offered barley, plum, grain for them and strong medicines for Indra Dev. Honey, ghee, milk and curd are obtained for the gods. Please do yajna for the welfare of all. (32)
The brightest, radiant, far-moving and star sun rises shining in space. People born from the sun definitely act as a duty. 
Indra Dev is great because of strong and quality body. The thunderbolt Indra should have the aforementioned importance. Indra's army should be as vast as the sky. 
O Jataveda and Vishadar Agni! The grain that shines in heaven among the gods, give it to us with the offspring. 
O enemies! Just as snakes with severed heads move, they are unable to do anything, in the same way, you roam in the battlefield by being zero with the measure of victory. May indra, the superior hero, kill those enemies who have been infatuated due to our sacrifices. (2)
May the yajna come to fruition. Increase the truth. Increase faith. Increase in wealth. There should be an increase in the level in the world. Increase in mood. Increase the level of happiness. Increase children. Increase the level in suktas. May the yajna be fruitful in all. (5)
Just as tant and wool etc. are woven with lead machine, mystics and poets increase the age of this yajna with the same mind. Ashwini Dev performs the yajna. Savita Dev, Saraswati Devi, Varuna, Indra dev's form is strengthened with medicines. (80)
Those who donate upbarhan i.e. insemination able bull and cow giving calf every year with clothes cut from gold wires, they go to the best heaven. (29)
The rainy, great and unbeatable agni dropped water from the sky by tapping the host who rained. Varuna knows the whole world by his intellect. Perform yajna in favorable seasons of sacrificial agni. 
O God of agni, the knower of beings born! You are born from the churning of the forest for the ultimate power. The Sapta rishis who created the earth etc. created you to cook Brahmaudan. You give this wife wealth with sons, grandsons etc. heroes. (3)
These gods have rescued the cows stolen by the pangs, installed the agni in many places and given food to the gods. Who can attack them? 
Situated like a friend, with strange deeds, by the grace of the agni satisfied by the human beings, the desire of the host performing yajna according to his power is fulfilled. 
O pit! They themselves are light, hostile, those who live till the yajna session, are arrogant, protectors of the people and demons are hanta (killers). All are publishers and destroyers of Amitro. (24)
O Parjanya! Roar around and enter the clouds and make words. You water the earth with rain water. The thick and rainy clouds inspired by you came. The sun with the desired and dark rays of the streams of water should be hidden. (6)
The powerful and dynamic Som sends the powerful juices towards Indra, leaving him for his intoxication and destroying the demons. Som, the master of the power and the giver of the choiceable money, hinders the enemies. 
O the ancient soul of yajna Mon! You sing, you are the children, the horse and the giver of food. 
Oh, God! In all the three realms illuminated by the Sun you remain present. Where is your truth, untruth, and ancient sacrifice? O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
Indra has covered the soma, which is commissible, white, mixed with milk, and squeezed by vegans and stones, and together with horses, he has taken out the cows stolen by the pangs out of the cave. 
O pitam, that is, food! Just as the air pervades the sky, so your juice is spread all over the world. 
O scholar Indra! You complete our goshala with cows in a closer look and make us happy. 
Hey Mon! You receive the three elaborate holy ones well. You run towards the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair, being cleansed. Hey Mon! You are more wealthy than the consumable, the giver of the giver and the rich. 
O Indra! When the gods led you as masters in the struggle, at the same time beautiful horses carried you away. 
The friends of the hosts, those who fulfill their desires through the yajna and the wombs of water are established by the gods among the agni human beings. Worthy of desire, worthy of yajna and praised by the agni hymns located at the high place of the altar. 
O Lord Indra! O agni! Increase the knowledge of Brahman. Pave the way for those who do the best deeds. You destroy our enemies. (64)
The enlarged body, including the deity who creates this type of body, has created that color in the color due to which name god has created that color in that body? (16)
O night! You are the statue of Samvatsar. We worship you. Make our sons, grandsons etc. long-lived and enrich us with cow and wealth. (3)
I keep the kumbhi on agni through the mantras of rigveda. Sprinkle water and put it on the agni. O Shamita! It should be pure, that is, mature and go to the world of virtuous. (5)
Where the streams of honey and ghee continue to flow, please stretch those streams for Vishwakarma Fire Gods. (65)
The king should respect the king whose guest such a special knowledgeable vratya is. By doing this, the vartya does not destroy the nation and the kshatriya power. (1)
O Indra! Give our host who serves through the psalms the money by which you protected King Puru. Just as you protected the rasam, the shy and the kripa, so protect the host of Shobhan Havi. 
O hosts! Offer the ksheer form containing ghee to Haviyam. They will destroy us and put us in living human beings and give us a hundred years of age. (3)
All desire the three famous and real births of Agni Dev 
O agni! Your friends, we human beings, the grandson of water, the adorned, the beautiful, the beautiful, the joyful and the unruly, choose you to protect ourselves. 
In the yajna, Dixit Mitra and Varuna had absorbed their semen together in a pitcher by accepting the praises and prayers of other people. The agnis originated from that pitcher. People also describe vasishta rishi as originating from the same pitcher. 
Where do sins, anti-livelihood elements, misdeeds, etc. come from in a man? Where does it get riddhi, siddhi, prosperity, intelligence and progress? (10)
O Indra and Varuna! Just as you receive the immortal agni, so which of the holy praises will please you? O Indra and Varuna! May both of you like the praises we say with yajna and havya. 
O Indra! Adhwaryu people have performed the rites of this Som. You drink it and fill your stomach. Be happy while drinking the Soma which the stones have crushed. (1)
The performer is considered in the mode of passion when he or she craves the fruits of the work, is covetous, violent-natured, impure, and moved by joy and sorrow.
Everyone should serve the king while sitting on the throne. The king should also sit on the throne and wear the kingdom, become bright and be ready to follow the people. The kingdom generated by the consecration should spread in ten directions. Sharu began to be frightened by the nominal of the king who drove away the enemies. This king should behave in various ways towards enemies, friends, wives, etc. and do punishment, war, study etc. (3)
Dynamic som intoxicating juices and juice dripping shells are washed. 
Let us experience the ultimate new and pleasing defense of the Ashwinikumaras. O mortal aschinikumaro! You give us wealth, brave sons and good fortune. 
O Indra! When will you understand our praises? We give the Psalms shelter you in your place at the same time. May your mighty horse bring home the food with the offspring because of our praise. 
O agni! The host for whom you perform the yajna attains the desired, dwells without the pain of the enemies, possesses the best power and attains growth. He never gets poverty. Let us not be persecuted by anyone for your friendship. 
With the power of these Indra Dev, the vritra rakshasa who was getting frightened, Indra cut off his glass with his thunderbolt and freed the cows stolen by the waters. Indra penetrated the cloud and freed the waters to protect all beings. Make up your mind like the host who gives Indra Havi and get the famous food. (10)
One of them is Hariknica. (3)
 O Indra! You are great brave and strong. You are going to work quickly. You are revered and vajradhari. The host is singing many happy praises for you. 
The cow had shattered the kings who had cooked the meat of the extreme aja named Keshar Prabandha, who had cooked the meat of the extreme aja of Veerhavya. (11)
This Brahmaudan is the creator of sacrifices, the man with ever-enlarged urads, i.e., n. This rice! May we attain immortality, long life, wealth and prosperity through our sons, grandsons, etc. by eating you as the home form of assets. (34)
O Indra! Those who plead for the rain of fruits, those who wish for heavens of kindness and pray to you in the morning, midday and evening evening. Just as a boat is full of pools of food, so we appoint for force. We recite our stotras with the desire to please Indra. (1)
Being squeezed by his fingers, Mon walks diagonally and says words to meet in the cow's milk-curd. 
Those who are innovative tell about the ancient and those who are ancient, they introduce the new. O Mon! Those whom you and Soma establish are able to hold the world. (19)
 Indra provides wealth to gentlemen 
O dying man! You are distinguished in the wide space of the altar of yajna etc. First, the best wives that you have given you, you should get them in the form of juices like honey etc. (20)
The sage Avyamaruta praises the maruts who are born with the great Vishnu and who know themselves of yajnagyan. O Maruto! Your force is a work-giving and unbeatable. You are as stable as the mountains. 
O Lord! Aschinikumaro, without humility, with a callous and laudable path! The husband and wife whom you make sit in the front of your chariot does not feel sinned, nor does the misery come to her, nor does she fear anyone. 
Oh, Usha! All your devotees who are praying to you for wealth have become friendly to us to give us a caries-free greeting. O Shobhan born Usha! People praise you for getting ass. 
How much is the desert and space expansion? O Vrushak, come to our homes from a nearby place. Indra is the best. (20)
O light-filled global agni! The person who wears the haavya becomes brilliant by your grace and your brave servants defeat the enemies. You give us all the money you want. 
As soon as the light of this revered Usha spread, the Angiragotrian sages received the cows. The milk started to be milked in the goshala, because Sarma had seen the cows from Satya Marg. 
O agni! May our friendship and fraternity towards you be beneficial. May this spirit be our basis in the devasthans and all the yagnas. 
May Devmata Aditi give us happiness with fasts. May the deserts with the best praises bless us. May Vishnu, Pusha, Space or Water give us happiness. Let the wind do our well-being. (9)
The rays of Soma, which are produced in large quantities from the dyava-prithivi-like parents, destroy those who do not perform yajnakarma, illuminated by the praises of the Ritvijas, and drive away from the earth and the sky with their wisdom the demons who hate Indra and have black leather. 
O Rudra! The man you attack cannot stand in front of you and wishes to do your violence. O God! You punish such a sinful man according to his crime, just as the enemy strikes him by reaching according to the footprints of the injured person. (13)
I embellish my voice with the Vedarup hymn like my father Kanva. By this hymn indra holds the force. 
O darbhamani! You encroach the land with your own strength. You are located on the beautiful altar in the yajna. The sages have sanctified you and withdrawn. Drive away your sins from us. (3)
With practice, O Parth, when you constantly engage the mind in remembering me, the Supreme Divine Personality, without deviating, you will certainly attain me.
O Indra! Willing to call you to the yagna, we praise you with a havi, O indra who dwells! You also wish us for the one who accepts the havi. 
I call both Indra and Vayu devas living in the sky to drink this somras. 
Those who change the asura form or come in other forms and eat the sacrifices offered to the ancestors, please remove the lowly working demons who feed themselves in this way from the world. (30)
Oh, horse! The heavens, etc. that I have described, are your birthplace and place of transmission. I have also seen your welfare rein protecting the yagna there. 
 O Indra! We get money by flowing with honey spoons. We are willing to stay near you. We want to get money from you. We take care of you. 
O the wise King and indra who knows all things! Just as you have done the rainwork and the contact work in bringing about the rain that brings about the people, The Left God has described them as such. 
I have created the earth and the sky. I have created six rillus and seven rivers and seven oceans like Ganga. I receive Agni and Som as a collaboration in the creation of sagar. (3)
The three states of material existence—goodness, passion, and ignorance—are manifested by my energy. They are in me, but I am beyond them.
O Lord Indra! You come to our yajna with your heart. We are going to make somers sanskar for you. Please come and receive these habits. (88)
O serpent named Arbudi! May the audacious birds, the birds that hurt the body, vultures, hawks and other meat-eating birds and crows, who are waiting to eat the flesh of our enemies, be satisfied when you cut our enemies. (9)
In front of whom Vasha appears, the gods ask for Vasha from him. Knowing this, Narada also reached there with the gods. (24)
O friend and Varun who hear the praises of the sage Raatavaya! We praise you because you walk to protect our chariots that walk in the path that stretches far and wide. 
Virat is the voice, the vast is the earth, the vast is space and the vast is prajapati. Viruthu is the master of death and ends. The past and the future are in his control. May he control the great past and future in my control. (24)
This golden king is the lord of many cows, gold and horses. Indra give them incredible property. Just as animals and birds, etc., are tied with a rope, the king did not allow the pilgrim, who came on foot in the morning, to leave. 
Keep on finding the songs sung for Indra, who stopped countless enemies, increase. Because of these songs, the mighty Indra may make great words among our sons and friends. 
While wishing for protection, the wise ritwij with the help of fingers massages the emancipating and revolutionary som. The mons fall as streams while wishing and doing words. 
The God of goats, the shepherds, the granular householders, the psalms, and the God who is set over the whole world, illuminates all beings and carries the iron rod and walks around in the sky 
Indra had eaten a herb named Guarpatha to commit violence against the asuras. O guar patha! Defeat the opponents who ask me questions and dry the throats of my opposing speakers, so that they cannot speak. (4)
O dream! We know your birth. You are the son of sense disorders and the instrument of Yama. You are the end-of-life death. We know you very well. You save us from nightmares. (8)
 O Indra! O agni! You are the ritviju of yajna. Your purity remains in the works of yajna. Please pay attention to our prayers. 
Hey Ritvijo! Praise the oppressors of your strength, the enemies who support your strength, the bright-tempered and the mighty maruts for the purpose of receiving it. 
Give us wealth by gods skilled in giving charity. Listen to our hymns of Dyava-Prithivi and Varuna wives. Be a refuge for us with the gods and goddesses who are the ones who give welfare and give us money. 
The sharastha agnis originate in the houses of hosts and in the original earth of the vast sky. Fires without legs and heads hide their bodies and take the form of smoke in the house of the cloud i.e. in the sky. 
They are as simple as speed, as fast as the wind, as bright and slightly drenched horses adorn as the sun. 
This stotao! Increase the importance of your hymn to Indra. Indra always protects you like a skilled man of all work. 
Fire pervades the space by bright radiances, purifying the host with praiseworthy and sacred radiances and giving wealth and all the possessions to the host by holding the lampstand. 
The mantras of samaveda which have rom and paristaran which has havi. (2)
This hymn is spoken by the Psalms for Indra so that he is our protector and enhancer in the struggle. 
Garuda bird for Parjanya Dev (cloud), Aati for air, Vahas and Wood are rusts. For Banipati Brihaspati Dev, Pangraj and Wood are Kutta. There is alj for space. Matsya Vahas and Wood Are Kuttas for The River God. There is a turtle for heaven and earth. (34)
 O Mon! When you are filtered with a stable nature, your rays spread all around. If the green somrus is filtered in the sieve, then it lives in Dronalash. Som is keen to remain stable. 
This is the hymn! The Vishnu who measured the three lokas by three stages for the welfare of the afflicted Manu, may he dwell in the divine place in your yajnashala and may we, along with our sons and grandsons, be pleased with the wealth. 
I call the powerful, the rich, the possessor of true force, and the Indra, who is not stopped by the enemies. May Indra, who is worthy of utmost worship and yajna, come forward to hear our praises. May the thunderbolt Indra make all the paths a adornment for our wealth. 
The wife of the gambler roaming in an uncertain place is sad without him and the mother is upset. The gambler is afraid of the debt of others to go up. He wishes to steal the money of others. Comes home at night. 
O dead man! May your eyes meet the sun and your soul to the air. You go to heaven or earth because of your religious deeds. If you have happiness in the water, go there. You stay in the herbs through your body. 
The crinkling of the dawaagni happened as if lightning were burning in the sky. Fire licks the earth and burns the vines. The agni that is immediately produced is illuminated and sees the objects they have lit and light up the middle part of the earth and the sky with their rays. 
Stay around us to protect us from Indra Durbuddha and hunger. He is the lord of all the properties. These seven rivers increase the food grains in the country by the command of the wisher and the bright. 
I have shared this most secret principle of the Vedic scriptures with you, O sinless Arjun. By understanding this, a person becomes enlightened, and fulfills all that is to be accomplished.
The horn-like disease-preventive medicine in the head of a fast-running black deer should completely destroy decay, leprosy, epilepsy etc. from the parents. (1)
O Jupiter! You are our protector, our true guide, and master. We pray to you through hymns to complete your yajna. Let the one who has a deviousness towards us, let his swift ill-will kill him. 
Oh, Virgo! Pusha grab your hand and take it away from here. Let Ashwinikumar take you by the chariot. You go to the husband's house to become a housewife and arrange the house by being under the control of the husband. 
When the puruṣh (individual soul) seated in prakṛiti (the material energy) desires to enjoy the three guṇas, attachment to them becomes the cause of its birth in superior and inferior wombs.
Just as birds voluntarily reach the tree they live in quickly, so Soma himself reaches Indra's body as a power producer. O great Indra! Get agitated by Som Pan and destroy the enemy armies with soldiers who obstruct us and fight. (2)
These come protects from the fear of human beings like the gods. They are very powerful and have arisen for lifespan. 
O the scholar and Swami Indra who aspires to praise the meritorious sages! You complete the prayer of the Psalms. Let us be the one who always pleases you through Mon. O Indra, sitting on the chariot! All this food is offered to you. 
Agastya replied, "O wife! We're not tired of being in vain. God pleased with our penance protects us. We are able to enjoy all the indulgences. If we and you wish, we can still have hundreds of means of happiness in this world. 
This pregnant woman! The demon who enters you with the thought of destroying the womb, instilling faith like a brother and father in your dream state, I destroy all these and all the demons who roam around as impotent through white mustard medicine. (7)
O Indra! Don't leave us with the deserts when sangram is present. O powerful! Your sacrificial part is different from the maruts. The praise from our fruits worships the hapished and charitable maruts. 
This lead is going to end the distractions cast by monsters, vampires, etc. It destroys the demons that feed humans. I defeat all the demons with this lead. They are born from the demon Pishachi. (3)
O Somers, the best and the mightiest of those who drink! You know your duties by being happy. We beg of your happiness that causes you to kill demons. 
 O sun! You have the ability to make the asundar beautiful. You rise in the dawn. 
By the grace of Veda Vyas, I have heard this supreme and most secret Yog from the Lord of Yog, Shree Krishna himself.
O heroic Indra! We should not be attacked by elephants and diseases. Don't let evil words and sins attack us. We should receive your grace and become servants and always continue to perform yajna successfully. (2)
O agni! Put an end to the future violence of our enemies on our bodies. You burn the enemies of those who give the word. Let all the invaders go away from here. Let the agni do the violence of all enemies. 
They are the reason for the observance of agni, they are the havya and yajna. They go quickly to call the agni gods. Devas come to the agni with praise. 
O bright fire! Bring the gods here to the place of yajna and take us to the yajna and the havi devas. 
 O hosts! Indra is the giver of food and wealth. He is a great god. May they appear in front of us and give us food grains etc. 
Mon, who is worthy of desire, pleasing to all and made pure like a son, goes to the white dashapavitra. Just as the people of velocity run the chariot towards the struggle fast, the fingers of both hands rub the mon in the water. 
This sacrifice should be well received for the sages with synonyms i.e. synonyms. (7)
Just as cows lick calves, so our intellects, as fast as horses, surround the eternally young Indra. Just as women produce children by having a husband, so let our praises reach Indra and give birth to the fruits. 
O aschinikumaro! You should drink somras with thirty-three gods, maruts, bhrigus, usha and sun who eat havya in this yajna. 
The psalms, through their hymns, ask for their happiness from the unbeatable maruts. 
O Rudra! Don't do our violence. Speak more of the promises of partiality towards us. Don't make us the target of your armament and don't get angry with us. Let us never meet you. (20)
O Indra! Veer gets your grace and kills the opponent Veer with his physical strength. Adorning the body, they both fight against each other and talk loudly about the son, grandson, cow, water and the fertile land. 
Indra drank three beautiful uwath mantras filled with somras at the same time. 
Balvanas are carried forward in agni wars and are established in yajna. Agni is brilliant and seeker of yajna. 
O Indra! Just as hotly disturbed cows take shelter in the shade of the banyan tree, in the same way, the malicious arrows of our enemies should stay away from us and go near them. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! It's pleasurable for me to get out of the house and come back home.  O glorious gods! Satisfy us with your importance in both the above tasks. 
The arrow holds a sociable fan. The horn of the deer is its tooth. The arrow tied by a stem made of cow falls on the target according to the inspiration. Where leaders move together or separately, give us shelter there. 
O Lord of men Indra! Your chariot is in a pitiable position, your horses are in control, and your vanguard is going to live in your arms. O Lord Indra! Come before us early by shobhan path. We increase your power by drinking somras. 
Those who have nurtured the world through grains, who have served enough of praiseworthy mantras, those who have increased the agni with the desire to listen and have burnt the true agni. 
O Ashwinikumaro! We take refuge in you through ukthas i.e. mantra groups. It is the grace of Kanva Rishi that we are serving you through speech. (4)
The ritwijas, who were able to destroy the yajna and who were wearing the havan, had taken the khuch in their hands and turned the agni towards protection by such hymns. 
Hosts of shobhan karma serve Indra to be safe from poverty. The hymns of the Angiravanshi yajnas are as motionless as the wooden pillars on the yajnadwara. Indra, who gives money, desires to give horse, chariot and miscellaneous properties to the hosts and are located to give all kinds of money. 
O agni! Be the barrier of enemies wishing to defeat us. Our enemies do not give you money, destroy their will. O you who give abode and the agni of duty! Grieve those who do not mind the yagnakarma, for your rays are without a sense of unturned and uninterrupted. 
O agni! When you are manifested by the desire for food eating, then your birth is excellent. You beautify all the realms like the secretary. Your rays go around receive our praises, and like a herd, those rays move in front of praises. 
Water never stops for the yagna of Indra, the rain-doer, the dynamic, the one who inspires all and the destroyer of the vrithranasha. The flow of water flows every day in the same way as it did in its first creation. 
Being holy, Som adds horses to the chariot of the Sun for the benefit of human beings and for the movement in space. 
O burn! Remove this sin of mine. Deities should slander with the filth and untruth of condemnation in me. That is, eliminate it. May the gods also remove from me the sin that I have taken an oath not to repay it by taking a loan. (3)
 O Mon! You are the one who benefits human beings and inspires water to rain. Enter this vessel from the stream through which you illuminate the sun. 
O wooden ark! You open up like the vagina of the baby-born woman. O Ashvrinikumaro! You hear the call of my sage Saptavadri and rescue me from this ark. 
O thunderbolt and desire-filled Indra! I call you by strange praises, the one who is doing the same. You accept your praises. Your call is full of desire. 
Let our praises be in front of a visible agni with burning flames. To get protection, our yajnas are rich in food and go to the agni that is rich and admired by many. 
O green and extremely intoxicating Mon! You live in the water. People beat you with stones to make Indra drink. 
The cow of dhaval varna flies with the next foot holding the food and the back foot holding its calf. She went to one half. She does not give a child in this herd. (17)
The suns that see the whole world and destroy the invisible toxins come out of Udaygiri, making the poisonous animals very weak. 
I pray for water as a medicine to settle the moving human beings in one place by providing the swami of wealth and comforts. (4)
O God of Agni! Neither am I the one who condemns the gods, nor do I be vain to the praiseworthy gods. O Jataveda Agni Dev! Then why are you angry with me? Apart from me, those who are anti-God demons should be destroyed. (14)
Make the best sacrifice of agni to the oak and pestle, the leather, which are the broken parts of soups, rice and rice, and which are churned by the sanctifying air. (26)
O agni! By your grace, our might may increase instead of the muscle power of those evil enemies. May your grace increase our meaning and strength. Destroy the unfriendly with your knowledge. May we raise our loved ones high. (82)
O Indra! I certainly admire the bravery you first showed in ancient times. You pierced the cloud with the desire to rain water and made it accessible for the hymn to get a cow. 
Perfect renunciation (karm sanyās) is difficult to attain without performing work in devotion (karm yog), O mighty-armed Arjun, but the sage who is adept in karm yog quickly attains the Supreme.
O Indra! We hosts call you through your worthy psalms. O Indra! You're going to drink on Mon. We are going to prepare somers and we have squeezed som juice. (3)
The Shyen bird had brought somrupi food with thousand and ayut 
 We hosts greet that supreme power, bow down and perform yajna vidhi. The chakra of that supreme power is located above 
Sin does not touch the one who knows the earth as soon as it was born and who stabilized space and jhuloka i.e. heaven. May this kind of dark-resistant mirror give us light. (9)
Oh, this desireful Indra! You follow us through the yajna kriyata that gives the most money, frightens enemies, drives away the devils and holds many. 
O magnificent aschinikumaro! Listen to the voice of the revered hymn who comes through your fast-moving and adorned chariot. The brilliant people born in the past did not tell you to go to eradicate the poverty of the stoetas. 
O Indra! Your true and progressive praise becomes a milch cow and gives a horse to the host who squeezes the Somras. 
O Maruto! I do not praise what is inferior to you except him. When our som nichad is gone, all of you become somabhilas and drink it together. 
This yajnaagni is a sin-piercing and evil destroyer. When this yajnaagni is established on the gross earth, brahmins, kshatriyas etc. are adorned like hooves at the feet of the cow in the form of religion. (28)
Prescribed duties should never be renounced. Such deluded renunciation is said to be in the mode of ignorance.
Just as the seed grows in the fertile land attached to the plough, in the same way I should get sons, grandsons, etc. children, food and animals. (33)
Indra is the king of heaven. May he protect me in this Vedokta Paurohita karma, in prestige, in resolve, in devavan karma and in action as a blessing. (11)
 O Mon! You are delicious. Please provide nutritious food for the sages like Angira etc. 
One who knows the season called Kurwanti for sure, even while knowing Kurvati, takes away the opulence of unpleasant enemies and dams. This is the season called Kurvati, which is the Panchaudan form. The person who knows this burns the opulence of his unpleasant enemies and dams with his power and donates it to Aj in the form of Panchaudan, illuminated by Dakshina. (32)
O Indra! You should thus hear praises and inspire us to kill enemy armies in wars and subdue the asura armies who commit violence. O Indra! May we, the Sages of Bhardavajavanshi, praise you and get the dwelling place along with the food. 
O god! You are the ruler, the giant, the direction form and the ruler of all the gods. You are the protector and protector of Jupiter. We establish you from Trinyavyastrishat Stom. We establish you on earth. Vaishvedev agnimarut dev establishes you for the Ukatha Stotra. Please grace to distinguished you in space. Please ravte saam to establish you in space. May the previous born sages pervade the best divine qualities in the divine world. Expand you too, the main deity doing the desired task. In this way, all Vasu Adi Dev is happy with one idea. (14)
The vampire who wants to eat us, break his eyes, cut off his tongue and break his teeth. Thus you destroy him. (4)
Hey Mon! We desire your worship and are in your friendly work, we want your sakhya. 
 Soma goes to his desired 
 O agni! Please worship friends and Varuna for us. Please worship many gods. You worship the yajna. 
Indra is the best among thousands of wealthy donors and Varuna among the praise recipients. 
These Saraswatis had given a son named Divodas to the wise man who gave the havan, the quick and rid of debt. They had always destroyed the people who had satisfied themselves and did not give charity. These donations of yours are great. 
Wherever those who know the nature of Sagun Brahm go due to initiation and penance, the wind should take me there and the wind should place life in me. This sacrifice should be received by the air well. (2)
The gods appointed the two months of shishir season from the upper side as its protector and made the sky and the sun its rituals. (16)
Varuna has spread the space over the forests. They extend strength in horses, milk in cows, resolution of yajnakarma in the hearts, agni in waters, sun in heaven and somalata on the mountains. 
O global! May this yajna related to you be successful, may we receive wealth and the sons may serve us very soon. Friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Earth and Sky protect our wealth. 
I eat with my teeth all my life. I am able to suppress enemies with my body. O agni! May you be distinguished by happiness in my home. You make me happy even in heaven. (1)
Balvan Indra goes there by crossing the enemy army in battles like a powerful horse and becomes rich by covering the earth and sky. In the yajna, like the Sun God, the havanable and earnest Indra becomes the father of the stothas and the giver of food when called well. 
For those hosts who conquer their enemies and kill them, indra's golden form of wealth rains in such a way that water comes out of the mountain. (2)
This quiver is the father of many. Many are the sons of this. Live under the protection of this. The quiver is tied on the back. It conquers all the warriors of the army. (42)
O aschinikumaro! Make us safe by the days, the nishas and the unforeseen good fortunes, may friends, Varuna, Aditi, Sindhu, Prithvi and Akash respect this praise. 
The hosts worship the gods with the mantras with the highest letters. Somerus has been squeezed with stones. Scholars consume this somras. (59)
We praise the banned violent, demons, serpents, yatudhans and ancestors of charity. I praise one death after another. May they free me from sin. (16)
Please describe to me your divine opulences, by which you pervade all the worlds and reside in them. O Supreme Master of Yog, how may I know you and think of you. And while meditating, in what forms can I think of you, O Supreme Divine Personality?
 O Indra! Surely you are brave and fulfilling your wishes. The hosts performing som yajna have called you to protect themselves. You protect us. Your fame is also nearby and extends far and wide. 
O agni! You say the same words as a bull while ploughing both the bright, red and wind-velocity horses in the chariot and surround the forest with the smoke of your flag. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O horse-biter! The beloved horse of the gods is stabbed well to cut off the thirty-four bones on both sides. Take precautions so that no part of the horse is cut off. Look at each part and take a name. 
They do not go far from near the aygikar whose father, mother and brother-in-law Indra killed, but they wish for the good given by him. Indra, the ruler and the richest, does not run away from sin. 
We are happy to praise hosts Indra and Agni by praying that we should never break the long son-grandson tradition like a rope and producing a son-grandson who gives strength to the fathers. Let Indra and Agni, destroying the enemies, be near to this praise, 
 O Indra! You are richer than our father. Those who do not follow are richer than our brothers. You are like our mother. Make me rich, rich and famous. 
O Rudra! However, dragons, fish, fish, etc. are for you, towards which you run the armament with your speed. You see the whole land in a moment and reach the present ocean in the east direction to the ocean in the north direction in a moment. (25)
 Indra is going to give a lot of glory to the God and hosts of the world. They alone are enough to defeat enemies. 
O very young agni! Please the gods who wish to hear the praises. O agni, lord of the time of the gods! In this yajna, you know the times of the yajna and worship the gods. O the best agni! You worship the gods with the priests of the gods. 
O agni! Dev wives also want sacrifices. They also sacrifice for them. Please bring Tvashta Dev to us for Sompan. (20)
The men said, "This is Sarma! You have come here afraid of the power of the gods. We make you our sister. Don't you go from here. Oh, beauty! We'll give you our cows' share." 
Please use my rituals for my welfare, etc. for my welfare. My mind is complete. I do not commit any sin, may all gods bless me. 
Oh Ashwinikumaro! Drink somrus, be satisfied, come and give us children and wealth. You, together with the sun and Usha, strengthen us. 
O Lord ashinikumaro of Udak! You assisted Indra in indra's work by drinking somras on the occasion of indra's war with namuchi asura. 
O agni! All those who are mutually happy and who are laying the kusha are the ones who call the gods in the yajnashala and the all-loving ask for the best money from you. 
O Indra! You are the father of the world and the earth. O gentleman and multi-worked Indra! Drink your certain portion of the Somras by the gods by defeating all the enemies and velocities and victorious among the waters. 
O jataved agni! We increase you through the means of ignition. You increase us with people and wealth. (2)
May Indra and Agni, who are pleased with the havi given by us, bind these enemies of ours and King Som bind them. May Indra, along with the deserts, bind the loop of our enemies. (3)
O Indra affordable by the praises! All the praises and praises that are there for you come together and hold on to your power. 
Dhanswami Indra conquered the Asuras and won their delightful wealth, equine and armies. Indra is the best among all human beings by his powers, One who holds and distributes wealth by listening to the hymns of the praise. 
Oh, my friends! Come. Let us praise together. These hymns open the door to the stolen cows' building. From these, Manu had won the asura named Vishishitra and with the help of them, the vanik equivalent Kandivan went to the forest and got water. 
This udumbar gem, which destroys the unfriendly, is tied to achieve bravery. May this gem make our achievement sweet. May it provide wealth to all our heroes i.e. son, grandson etc. (14)
We call the son of force, the young man, the praiseworthy by praiseworthy voice, the most young, the best of knowledge, praised by many, and the agni that does not betray the hosts by the praises. They give all the favorite money to the praises. 
O agni! You othermost, knower, Shiva are our protectors. You are rich and famous. You are the pioneer, the inhabitant of the best, the creator, the creator of light and heaven. We request you for the welfare of our well-minded and our friends. (48)
We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. (31)
The flame of agni is going to carry havi and prevent diseases. For this reason, it is like a door. O shining flame of agni! Just as women respect husbands, so be the one who gives happiness to the gods. You are going to pervade Havi. (5)
The wise describe the great man manifested with resolve in a manner. What is his face? What is bahu? Which is the thigh? What are feet called? (10)
Hey Mon! Destroy the fortified cities of the demons. O Som, being purified in Dashapavitra!  Bring us food. You cut the master of the demons coming from near or far with the help of the armament. 
For what reason did God, who created the creation, create the hair, nerves and bones, from where did He create the organs, joints, fat, and flesh? (12)
O earth! You are going to fulfill desires. You are the region-like expanse of this world. Prajapati completes your decreasing part. (61)
May The Purvaphalguni Nakshatra of Aryama Dev, Uttara Phalguni Nakshatra of Bhag Dev, Hasta Nakshatra of Savita Dev and Chitra Nakshatra of Indra Dev give me happiness filled with virtue. Swati Nakshatra of Vayu Dev, Radha or Vishakha Nakshatra of Indra Dev and Anuradha Nakshatra of Mitra Dev are suitable for us happily. May The Jyeshtha Nakshatra of Indra Dev make us happy. May the original nakshatra of the ancestors be beneficial for me. (3)
We call Aditidevi repeatedly in the morning and at the time of the Midnight Yajna. Oh my friend and Varun! We praise both of you for wealth, sons and grandsons, happiness and peace. 
 O Mon! You depart in the east direction. Then your chariot shines a lot. Your chariot is divine and visible. The host conveys his praises to you and Indra by singing the mantra. The host pleases you with the desire to win. They get a joke from you. You both do not let the host lose in any war together. 
O agni! Like the old enemies, destroy the enemy in the form of jars at this time, in the same way as you cut off a group of vines. (1)
The God named Bhaga, who is blind, is unable to walk forward and does not leave the trees on the way, O O O Oushadhi! Make me lucky with that luck. Let our enemies move away from us and get a bad situation. (3)
We destroy the tiger first of the animals that commit violence with teeth. After this, we destroy thieves, snakes, yakshas, demons etc. and wolves. (4)
O thirsty man! I satisfy your dull heart with pleasant waters. After this, you will be disease-free, well-radiant and happy. Ashwinikumar, who holds one opinion, should make mayarup and prepare power to drink this sattu. (6)
Sevikas are not awake. (17)
The deserts are always bright, rain-fed, with the same adornmental analogy as the aschinikumaro, adorned, with yellow horses, masters of red horses, sinless, hostile and as wide as the sky. 
O hosts! Indra Dev is glorious, the foster of all the worlds, the one who grows the whole world and makes it crazy. We worship them. The best sacrifices are performed for Indra Dev. The glory of those who give great glory to both earth and heaven is heard. (23)
When Kush with the havyas is brought to the agni and an innocent khuch filled with ghee is placed on the Kush, then the altar, the abode of agni on the earth, is made and the yajnakarta is as wide as the light of the sun. 
Oh, Usha! You carry money lovingly for the psalms with the help of horses without taking a break. O goddess of heaven! Be worthy of worship and visible in the first call. 
O bride and groom! Stay here, don't be separated from each other and get the whole state. Be happy in your home while you play with sons and grandchildren. 
Oh, Usha! You are the one who removes those who hate us, the follower of the truth, the instigator of the happy words for the sake of the yajna, the welfare support and the yajna desired by the gods, you should illuminate this place today in the best way. 
 The creator of the past, present and future is the complete man. Its three legs are in immortal paradise. The remaining fourth stage of this is all beings. 
The enemies who are willing to violence others, they should come from the west and worship me at night, they should get the sun that receives the support of the earth for their destruction. (5)
You omniscient we call. O you know! You tell us the known hymn today. While wishing you, I praise you well. 
Poets got knowledge from yajna. Knowing creation and age through knowledge. They know Rita for our sons. Know the secrets of nature. (2)
I dig up this vine-like herb called Patha, which is stronger. Seet is hindered by this herb and it is beneficial to wear it. A woman who wears patha finds her husband. (1)
 O agni! Giving you many blessings, I have come to your shelter in the same way as servants come in the shelter of the very rich. 
O house made of stone! You are mine. The sinner who wants to kill wants to destroy me from the west direction, he must be destroyed before he comes near to me. (3)
O Indra! You are born as a wisher and a great man. You wear all the money with the shobhan child for charity. 
Indra had destroyed all the fortified cities of Shrut etc. and seven types of defence by force and gave the wealth of Anu's son to Tritsu. O Indra! We can conquer the harsh-rooted enemy in battle. 
 O friends who perform yajna! You come soon. Come and sit down. Praise Indra in every way. 
I praise Savita Dev, who created the earth and the sky. This Savita Dev is the one who does inferior deeds, the motivator of reality, the one who wears gems and loves everyone, so he is honorable to everyone. (1)
O Indra! You did this act of valour which awakened the sleeping ahi demon with your thunderbolt. Then the wives rejoiced to see you rejoiced. The dynamic deserts and other gods were pleased with you. 
All the devas became frightened when agni hide in the cave with all the heavenly wealth. As soon as the leaders and the wise deities praised Agni through intellect-made mantras, they attained Agni. 
O god of agni with a wonderful light! Just as the waves of the Indus fill the water in all the mountains, drains, etc., so you are also going to divide the wealth among the people. Give the host who gives the matter the fruit of the deed quickly. 
O Suryadarshaka Mon! You fall down and complete the wide dyava-earth with that juice in such a way that the sun completes the day with the rays. 
May the beauty of those living beings of the same value and with the same mind come to fruition in the living beings. Let us live in this world for a hundred years, may they stay connected with us. (46)
O agni! You are being praised for giving a greeting to the gods. You come to eat the havya and sit on the bedding. 
Swaha for hinkar. Swaha for Hinkrit. Swaha for crying. Swaha for degradation. Swaha to start the work. Swaha to finish the task. Swaha for smell. Swaha to smell. Swaha for located. Swaha to sit. Swaha for the stable. Swaha for moving. Swaha to take the asana. Swaha to sleep. Swaha for awakening. Swaha to kuj. Swaha for the enlightened. Swaha for yawn. Swaha to be conscious. Swaha for present. Swaha for arrival. Swaha for the journey. (7)
Provide homes and happiness with three types of lands that enhance the herbs and water and the masters of the whole world. Give us the shobhan jyoti that lives in three seasons. 
O water! You are going to give all kinds of happiness. May you give all of us the power to consume them to all those who want to consume food etc. May you give us the power to interview Brahma, the great and delightful form of bliss. (1)
 O Indra! We take refuge in you to protect ourselves in the yagna. You are a destroyer and young man. You come to us. Accept our friendship. You are famous about that you are worthy of service. Protect everyone. 
The goddess is energetic. Indra harnesses milk well for Dev. Goddess Indra takes the age for Dev and increases his age. We worship them in line verses. We give our might to them. We hold our age for them. They hold money for us. Please perform havan for the hosts. (39)
O great and mighty Indra! Listen to the praises and come to us quickly with the help of your horses. Be well-merried in this yajna and listen to these praises of Ours. 
O Mon, donating and being sewn from all sides by the waters! You give us very strange food. We call upon the demeanorless god-earth. Oh, God! Give us wealth with the heroic children. 
O son of strength and lord of the food grains of the good, Agni! We will become a agni-walled by your garhapatadi forms. You protect us by becoming the heroes. 
 O Mon! You are powerful and powerful. Come to the kalash for the gods and deserters to drink. 
O adhwaryu logo! Offer the interesting and squeezed somers to Indra, the best of human beings. The speed at which the gourmer comes to know the remoted water, Indra comes even faster than the one who finds the host who squeezes the somras when they have the knowledge of the potable Som. 
O the rudraputra marudgans who give the abode and are not defeated! At this time you come to us on the call. They are great pleasures in war. That's why we call them.  
No one can throw away the chariot of the adornment person, nor can anyone hold it for their own selfish ness. Indra and the deserts, whose protectors are, will go to the cowshed. 
O sick man! We establish the green color produced by the disease living in your body in the sources and in the birds called planters. We establish yellow color like your haldi in yellow birds called Gopitanak. (4)
My son's are enemy destroyers and my daughter is particularly adorned. I conquer everyone and my own fame is the best near to my husband. 
O enemyless Indra! Come quickly. The Stotas call you to the deep yajna from the gods of Douloka through uwatha mantras. 
O Pashupati! Salutations to your face. O bhava! Salutations to your three eyes. Salutations to your skin, form and the power of right philosophy. (5)
The havan-dharita reaches the sky by mixing the havanic substances like agni milk, etc., and by their brightness, illuminate the local, movable world as well as the night. The agni senses have spread the movable and the movable, the light and the immovable, than all the gods. 
The one performing the ritual of yajna moves towards Indra through yajna and the devious motion person is always sad in the mind, just as the thirsty person is happy to find clean water in front of him in the way and the crooked path reaching the water late makes the thirsty one sad. 
I call the sarvagrani and the many formative tavasthas to this yajna. They're only ours. 
O Indra and Som! "Dismiss the enemy you do with violence, and be the instigator of the enemies of the servant hosts. You both protect us and make our place dependent in this terrible war. 
 The young Indra is a friend of the hosts who ignite the best agni. Those who perform yajna lay the seat of Kush for them. 
O wise man! You call upon the enemy-doer and the enemy friend and Varuna, and give a greeting to the jalrup, the lord of the food and the great Varuna. 
In the seven ritvaij yajnas that invoke the best Yajna and the invokers of the gods, the agni that is chosen, the same agni that gives all the possessions, I am serving through the havya and i am asking for delightful wealth from that agni. 
Someras, treated by the air-related decoction, walks from the mouth and reaches the navel country. He is a worthy friend of Indra. (1)
The herbs I have are going to remove the venom of both aghascha and swaj snakes. Indra has subdued Padha to stop the snake that commits the sin of violence. (10)
The demon who makes the pregnant woman with a dead son or who makes her a destroyed woman, O mustard medicine! Destroy the wicked one and make clear his womb. (9)
O you are pure, Mon! You become extremely bright and make quick words by aiming for the gods to make them deathless. 
The man who gives a soothing from the goal of Indra in the ignited agni, Indra pours out soothing water for his production of food. 
He moved in a greater direction. (10)
O Mon! You shine the holy light. Sanctify Brahmins and Kshatriyas. Soma reveals the power of the senses. Soma becomes more enjoyable by becoming sour. It is the god of gods and bright. It holds juicy food for the hosts. (5)
Hey Aditya! Remove from us the violent enemy and evil-mindedness. O all-knowing Adityas! Separate the enemies from us. 
 O Indra! Just as a man with a young woman 
The terrific sound thundered across the sky and the earth, and shattered the hearts of your sons, O Dhritarasthra.
The Angiragotrian sages had created a bright perfect place for Spinach Indra. Those who performed the best yajnakarma had shown the proper place for Indra. Sitting in the yajna mandap, they stopped the world-giving earth and the sky from the space-like pole and placed the fast indra in heaven. 
 O agni! You perform yagna for Vasu, Rudra and Aditya devta here. You should felicitate the person who performs the best yajna, the one who irrigates with ghee, the person born of Manu 
 O agni! You are heroic. Listen to these new prayers of ours, consume the deceitful demons with your heat. Demons disturb our shortcomings. 
The lucky and happy Arani gave birth to the agni like the womb of a spectacular and variety of herbs. All the gods went to praise, to the agni that was praiseworthy, advanced, and immediately created, and they served the agni. 
Hey Mon! Just as a man digs a pond with regular water to drink other people's water, or someone fills the water by making an anjali with ten fingers of the arms, so you cross the dashapavitra to get food. 
Usha, who is afraid of Indra, keeps increasing their speed. It is because of Indra that all the nights become adorned in Nishant. It is because of Indra that the seven rivers are able to cross with human benefit and ease. 
Indra, who expands the cloud in the sky and wets the earth with rainwater, only makes the grains of the land strong with rainwater. (5)
O stotao! Don't take shelter from any other god. Don't praise any other god. O be the ones with the prepared somers! Praise Indra and sing the obstinates again and again. (1)
Today, I praise the milking, praiseworthy, and easily milky rainbow cow. In addition, the cow is a rising and rainy-like one with many streams. 
O salt! If you are as powerful as nine bulls, then produce children from this cow, you will be considered unenthodor. (9)
O agni! You keep grace wisdom on us. You are our guardian. You give us long life. We are your brothers. No one can do you any violence, for you are full of men and who follow the yagna. You have hundreds and thousands of properties well. 
May Indra be our protector when the battles with flags are received. Conquer our arrow enemies. Our heroes should be in the north direction or in a good position. O God! All of you also protect us in battles. (11)
Scare the surrounded by all four directions here. (1)
He got up and walked in the east direction. (15)
O Indra! You mix the somas and milk-curd etc. Thus I understand you as having wealth. 
Dev-wife eat our havya. Indrani, Agnayee, Deeptiyukta Ashwini, Rodsi and Varunani Devi should eat our havya. May the goddess of the seasons between the devas and wives eat our havya. 
Young men and deserters destroy those who do not give to the gods. No one can stop their speed, because they are as firm as mountains and fulfill the wishes of the psalms. They also make the strong objects of the earth and the sky tremble with their own force. 
O agni! Take possession of all the destinations of the earth with your bright flames, stop the terrible objections, violence those who compete with your own glory, and destroy the enemies. 
Hota performed yajna for the day and night. Hota performed yagna for Ashwinikumars and Saraswati Devi. From that yajna, the light located in the day and night established the glow of Mand, Oshadhi and Shayen Patra in Indra Dev along with mind and shriya. Honey, ghee and milk are obtained for them. May the gods please accept them. Please the host to perform yajna for the welfare of all. (35)
O act! Just as an open donkey runs away, so you go near your creators and destroy them because of our mantra force. (14)
We praise all the gods who have true promises, who increase the truth or yajna. They should come here with their wives to our yagna and free us from sin. (19)
Those friends and Varuna are able to give us more earthly and divine wealth. Oh my friend and Varun! Your force is famous among the saints and gods. 
O sage! You praise the agni with burning flames through mantras to protect and gain wealth. Other hosts also praise the agni. You ask for a house for me by agni. 
O present Mon in this yajna! When we have gained your friendship and been strengthened by the best food you have given us, we will kill the enemies who are willing to fight. 
The mind came again. Age came back. He was killed again. The soul was regained. Got my eyes again. Got ears again. O agni! You want everyone's welfare. You are the protector of the body. You cannot be suppressed. O agni! May you save us from sins and evil deeds. (15)
O Indra! Your item is affordable. Who is going to kill more enemies in battle. Through him you take away wealth from enemies. That item is crossed with great difficulty in the wars. 
Indra adi devs surrounded adi dev, the motivator of all, due to which. For that reason, O enemy destroyer Brahmanaspati! Make this host who uses great peace a king. (1)
In its world-nurturing work, lazinessless, constantly young, in the decades of direction and clouds, the present air in the womb produces the present, sharp and very successful agni in all substances. This agni is carried everywhere. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You are the one who stops and abuses people like an elephant's curb. You are as hostile and as antithetical as the vamishta. You are as bright and powerful as the substance produced in water. You give the mortal body to puberty. 
Brahmins should bring bath water for this. They should bring water that does not destroy veer. He should circumambulate the agni of Aryama Dev. O God of God! Father-in-law and brother-in-law wait for this bride. (39)
 Soma is the king of rasas and has holy white rays. They go to the priests quickly like horses. 
O darbhamani! Chastise my enemies and those who gather armies against me. Chastise those who have ill will towards Me and those who are hostile to Me. (10)
O seeable and lord of water, Ashwinikumaro! In which district and in which nations do you find joy today? Who bound you, and what wise man's house do you go to? 
O sing! I equip you with a happy cowshed and give you food and wealth. I ecompanies you with sons, grandsons, etc. children. (1)
Brahman, tapa, yajnadiksha and vast form spread water are those who hold the earth. This earth had followed the creatures of the past and will also follow the creatures of the future. This type of earth gives us a wide space to live. (1)
May all herbs fully know the meaning of my praises and enable me to bring this sick man across from the sin of disease. (19)
O husband and wife! You move east. Only devotees can climb that heaven. Stand up to protect the ripe odan that Bum has placed on agni. (7)
Somdev does not leave the sinful monster to survive. Somdev also does not leave the sinful demon who holds the untruth to survive. Somdev destroys the demon and also destroys the untruthful. Both of them are tied in Indra's loop. (13)
It was praised by us, the most famous, the most detailed and radiant, sharp, rising from darkness in the east. Surely, the daughter-in-law and the deepishali usha of the sun had the power to make the hosts moving. 
The sage said in his mind, "The animals that eat barley straws in the world are my own forms. Even the people who eat food are no different from me. I am the inner Brahman that is in the courtyard of the earth and the wide sky. Indra, who lives in the heart-like sky, wants his devotee to e-marat and also brings the person more trapped in the world's desires on the right track. 
 O Mon! You are brave and enlightening. Please give us the best qualities and come to your designated place in the yajna. 
This is the hymn! Praise the worthy and heroic Indra with new praises. Indra is called in this way and listen to our call and give us more food. 
O Soma and Rudra Dev! Both of you install herbs that remove diseases in our bodies. Separate and destroy the sin committed by us in our bodies. (2)
 O Mon! Please be sophisticated for our benefit. You be holy. You do us welfare. You give us the best wisdom. You accept our prayer. You satisfy Indra. 
I call myself, father, son, grandson, baba, wife and mother who gave birth and all loved ones. (30)
In this house of my host, the wealth of cow etc. should be strengthened and the juices like milk, curd etc. should be rich. O cow giving birth to twins! You nourish the animals of this host and give it thousands of kinds of money. (4)
O milk! You win the enemy armies by saying high words. You capture them and win the war. You should utter the divine voice and give me the wealth of enemies. (4)
O agni! You are endowed with splendour. You are the mother. You are the father. You are horse. You are us. You are dynamic. You are Maya. You are mighty. You are happy. You are humble. You are an infant. You are the protector. You follow your path like Adityas. You are dishapati. Please protect this cultured horse for the gods. Delight here, in the meantime. Hold this yajna. It is the power to hold itself. Swaha for these. (19)
O delightful Mon wale Rishoo! You made your parents young by your karma. It was through your skill that you divided the spoon into four parts and made the gods drinkable. It was with your skill that you made two fast-moving horses carrying Indra. 
Oh, God! Let us humans be the ones who offer you yajna. You complete our ancient yajna. O Adityas, Rudraputra Maruto and Shobhan-daan wala vasuo! You listen to these raised hymns. 
 Som is holy. They depart from their yajna place to heaven. They are the best means of sacrifice and have the ability to defeat enemies. 
O fire! Drink somras from your tongue while pronouncing the revered and eulogetic god Vashtakara. 
Action that is in accordance with the scriptures, which is free from attachment and aversion, and which is done without desire for rewards, is in the mode of goodness.
O deserters! Your famous friendship towards us was there in the past too. You protect our praises well and you know the mind of the devout host by becoming the leader of the yagna. 
O Rudragana! Salutations to you located in space. Your arrows are like the wind. We salute them in the east direction. We salute them in the west direction. We bow to them in the south direction. Hello to them. May they protect us and give us happiness. Those who hate us, those whom we hate, Rudragana should keep them in their molars (press). (65)
Brahmachari, the first born, took this vast land as the first alms. After this, heaven was taken as the second alms. He takes care of agni by making those heaven and earth obtained in alms as a companion. All beings are established between heaven and earth. (9)
Skins are capable of forming. They give form to all animals. They grow our animals. 
O nirvitti! When you tie a man with iron chains or wooden legs, he is bound by death in this world. There are thousands of causes of death like famous fever etc. diseases and demons, vampires etc. O nitty! You should give excellent happiness to this man by coordinating with Yama, the god of death and with gods, ancestors, etc. (4)
O Indra! May the food that is called to the gods worthy of praise among the gods and the food installed in the house by humans bear your food. O Indra of deepta havi! You rule the world, so go to dulok. 
O Lord Indra! You are young, mountainous and a great warrior. You completely heat the enemies and attack them with a sharp blow. You keep us away from being surrounded and hidden by enemies. You attack our enemies from all sides. You are everywhere on earth, heaven, etc. You give us good and best powerful children, make us brave and strengthen us well. (53)
O Indra! These Mons, Chamas etc. have been collected for you. You make this Mon abdominal. (5)
We have heard that there is a demon named Krishna, who produces red colored gandmalas. I dissect all such enlarged gandmalas with the arrow mentioned by Dyotman Atharva Rishi. (1)
O wind! The thousands of chariots you have, you plough horses in them. You come to drink somerus. (32)
 Somers has been prepared very quickly. It is knowledge-enhancing and green. It soon reached shaktiman Indra, who fulfilled the wish. 
I don't even take the name of my son. No one likes Saut. I send my son-in-law to a very far away place. 
Deeptiman, being praised, surrounds all the subjects with the agni power of the delightful shobhan chariot. We will publish all the deeds of agni, which nourishes many and dwells in the yajnashala, through the best hymns. 
The ritual of yajna took place on the bhumiroopi altar. The perimeters of this yajna were wide. At the same time, two agnis of winter and summer were worshiped. (46)
O Jupiter! Be a happy friend of the king, who controls the wicked and as simple as the way for a host with good wealth and with good wealth. Those who condemn us and remain safe, make them defenseless. 
 O Indra! You are omnipresent. You fill your stomach and drink this somerus. We dedicate Someras to a fearless one like you. 
 O Indra! You are the destroyer of the wicked 
O Indra! Your praises move quickly like the waves of the ocean that run over each other. Your items become especially radiant. 
The host illuminates the agni with samidha. Ghee-filled offerings provide agni. Yajna is proved with great ukthas (stotras). (55)
Though he perceives all sense-objects, yet he is devoid of the senses. He is unattached to anything, and yet he is the sustainer of all. Although he is without attributes, yet he is the enjoyer of the three modes of material nature.
Indra is the possessor of heaven and heaven, the present everywhere, who walks up like his chariot, who receives the help of the maruts, the masters of the night, the creator of the sun and the bearer of the sun, and the protector of the sun, and the protector of the ancestors, the one who is going to divide the food received as a consumable karma-fruit like the voice of the ancestors 
O Shur Indra! When you desire to give, god and man cannot stop you in the same way that the terrible bull cannot be stopped. 
O ghost! Dhata Dev, who holds the whole world and the swami of the upward direction, willing to go to the upper world, protect you in the same way as the inspiring sun of all wears the bright sky. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! You become the one who gets a part in this yajna of ours. (29)
O Brahmaspati Prabhriti Devo! We speak the same Indra exponent holy mantra. Hey leaders! If you want our words, you will receive all the glorious words. 
What is the milk of tamoguni nature? (4)
The omniscient, the lord of the whole universe, Amita, illuminates the world of light, giving birth to the agni world with force and food, symbolizing and dying-free earth-sky. 
Friends with eyes and ears are unique in illuminating the sense of mind. Some people look like a pond deep to the waist, some like a pond deep to the mouth, and some like bathing ponds. 
The Supreme Power that nurtures and destroys this whole world, we desire wealth from them and already keep them in our arms and we also remain under their control. (17)
Keep Indra Dev and all gods all bhuvans under your control. Adityagan Marudgan and Indra Dev along with his Gana keep us healthy. Keep this yajna under your control of our bodies and subjects including Indra Dev and Adityagan. (46)
O Indra! These hymns sit around the somras squeezed for you like bees sit on honey. Dhankami Stota dedicates his praises to Indra in the same way that people set foot on the chariot. 
O Indra! You went to make heaven radiant by becoming the illuminator of the sun through your light. The gods tried for your friendship. 
 Yajna expands indra's growth and land. They inspire clouds from heaven to rain. 
O Arbudi! Those whose husbands have been cut off by you. The wives of those enemies of ours should soon go to those dead men, beating their mouths and chests with their hands, spreading their hair. (14)
We establish ishtaka from mind, verse, prama verse, statue, astrivaya, row, yoshik, brihati, anushtup, birad, gayatri, trishtup and jagati. (18)
O Indra, lord of horses named Hari! When you freed the rivers blocked by the demon Vrithra to flow at will after long-term bondage, those divine saritas praised you for the protection you had to give. 
O gem! Save us from unlimited sin as wide as the root of heaven and wide on earth and protect us in all respects. (3)
O sun! You protect the four directions and illuminate the sky with your rays. You illuminate all these bhuvanas. Knowing the status of truth or sacrifice, you spread their paths in order. O broad sun! Your powers are infinite. May you complete us with animals of many forms such as dhenu, horse, etc. and establish us in the sudha that is in the supreme vyom. (16)
O Hundred and Indra! You are the one who defeats the enemies in the battles. I praise you. I praise you for the destruction of sin. (6)
God is self-sufficient, life-giving and self-enlightening. They are Savita Dev Varenya and Saubhagyadayau. We pay attention to them. May they please inspire our intellects. (3)
Fire! In the yajna, Adhwaryu is praying to offer ghee. Saluting the agni. They go near the agni with various prayers. (14)
Aditya, Varun, friends and Aryama protect us from the enemy. We call the furious Rudra, The Marudgana, Indra and Agni to escape the enemy and get welfare. 
O agni! We surround you with a snow cover like wrapping the embryo. You are going to make us holy. You be welfare towards us. (5)
O burn the flowing! The wave of yours which benefits both this folk and the hereafter, send the same Madkarini wave to indra's pan. Your wave goes up to the intoxicating, willing to meet with Mon, originating in space and moving around in all three realms. 
O darbhamani! Cut off my enemies and those who gathered the army against me. Cut off those who have ill-will and hate towards me. (6)
All the things that kill and conquer enemies are ours. Truth, glory, Brahman, heaven, animals, people and all heroes are ours. We keep away the son of such a tribe and the son of such a woman from this world. I surround his brilliance, strength, soul and age. He could not get rid of the clutches of bad condition. (7)
O Indra! You received the money hidden in the cave only after the Usha period through your light powers. (1)
Just as a fire is covered by smoke, a mirror is masked by dust, and an embryo is concealed by the womb, similarly one’s knowledge gets shrouded by desire.
Charity given to a worthy person simply because it is right to give, without consideration of anything in return, at the proper time and in the proper place, is stated to be in the mode of goodness.
Aditi, the mother of beautiful sons like friends, etc., may we take us through the path of defeating our enemies. May we enjoy the happiness of friends and Varuna by being unsung by many brave sons and others. 
O Indra! The somras squeezer hosts find the best house. The Somayagyakar also destroys the opponents of the gods by eliminating the enemies surrounded around. He becomes the master of food. No enemy attacks him. He acquires unlimited assets. To the person who performs somayagya for the sake of Indra, Indra gives him rich and rich rich wealth located around him. 
 O hosts! Even if one has the ability to do many things, no matter how much a destroyer, such a young man also suffers from old age. After old age, the person who dies is born again. All this is possible only by the grace of Indra. We should remember this great work of his again and again. 
May this husband again prosper with people and animals etc. from the famous and prosperous Havi. The wife who was brought near it by the father etc. who was married, the agni god should increase by performing havan with that wife's dadhi, madhu, ghrit etc. (1)
O gem stone! Always be aware of this holder while carefully protecting this holder. Yatudhan means demons and asuras named Pani should not do violence to you. Just as Indra staggered his enemies while driving them out of the battlefield, so you stagger the robbers. Especially defeat all those enemies who desire war. May the overstate gem protect you. (2)
O ghost! You get up from this place and walk. Moving fast, you make space your abode and be happy to meet your ancestors and drink Someras. (8)
O Indra! These yajmaans and wise do the yajnakarma speak your praises for joining the yajna. O rich and praiseworthy Indra! Just as the desireful person listens carefully, so do you listen to Our call. 
O Indra and Agni! You had made ninety cities of enemies tremble in a single attempt. 
O agni! Hosts have known the twenty-one elements hidden within you. Knowing that they protect you from them. You must love the hosts so much and protect their animals and real-movable wealth. 
Panchjan accept my call. May the God of the land and yajnapatra consume my agnihotra. Earth saves us from earthly sin and space saves us from divine sin. 
O nirvite! You are stunning. You are powerful. You are as iron-like. You free us from the bondage of worldly existence. Please recognize the host in heaven better than Yamlok. (63)
Those who give the Creator spirits and forces, all beings of the world, whose commands are obeyed. Those whose shadows are death and immortality, we serve the same divine Creator with purodash, etc. 
The Guru said to his disciple thus- 'O Devadatta, the sages who performed the previous ritual consumed that odan with the help of the person i.e. bladder, if you consume this odan in a different way than that, then you will die in water.'  It is not done from the front or by facing the soul. I have consumed it with the help of the sea-like settlement i.e. bladder. I have taken this odan where it should have gone. This omen is full of all the joints and the whole body with all the organs. From this situation, the one who knows how to consume this odan is the one with all the organs including all the joints and the whole body. He is situated in the virtuous worlds like heaven etc. (12)
O King Indra! Don't put us under the control of harsh words, slanderers and evil people. May you receive my hymn. 
Those who are enemies who want to do violence of others, they should come in the south direction and worship me at night. May varuna, who received the support of Adityas for his destruction, get it. (4)
Oh my friend and Varun! You wear the three shining heavens, the three spaces and the three forgetful ones, and you always protect the form and karma of the Kshatriya host. 
O Indra and Varuna, who drink the squeezed Someras and fast! Drink the sommers who do the item and the somers we squeezed. May your chariot, which is not defeated by the enemies, take both of you near the host's house to drink someras and perform yajna karma. (1)
Hey Ritvijo! We want Indra, who has reached out to our friends, to all the yajnas, to the enemies, to our helpers, to defeat those who disrupt the yajna, and to live with the deserts. O Indra! Follow our yajna to protect us. In the battlefield you kill all the enemies. No enemy faces you. 
O mon of simple speed, destroyer of nuisance, obstructing the diseased monster and putting an end to our violent enemies! You tap. You become friends with us and Indra by mixing your juice in the milk of cows. 
Just as the sun gives light with its rays, so Jupiter approaches the hosts and accepts their praises, donations and hymns. The oppositionless move around with the power of these Jupiters as powerful as the sun of the day, terrible leos, etc. 
Which praise lum can be the limit of the qualities of both? O aschinikumaro! By what praise will you both come to us when called? Who can bear your great wrath in the vicinity? O water builder and enemy builder Aschinikumaro! Protect us. 
O Bharti, Saraswati and Ila! You are all forms of agni. I call upon you. You inspire me to be wealthy. 
I (God) know the navel of this world. I know heaven. I know space. I know the origin of sun and moon god. (60)
The real form of this tree is not perceived in this world, neither its beginning nor end, nor its continued existence. But this deep-rooted aśhvatth tree must be cut down with a strong axe of detachment. Then one must search out the base of the tree, which is the Supreme Lord, from whom streamed forth the activity of the universe a long time ago. Upon taking refuge in him, one will not return to this world again.
Hey friend and Varun! In the yajnapradesh where you accept to go, the firemen with hair worship you for your yajna. Come and inspire the rain downwards and accept the best praises of the brilliant host. 
 O Mon! You provide us with funds. You also provide the best money for our cows. You're going to raise. You accept our prayers. 
O agni! You give a lot of money. You give the best power to the enemy. You remove all the wicked. Give us all your glory. 
O aschinikumaro! You're stunning. May your praise please the host in the yajnaghara with three kushas. O work years! May the clouds related to you please the people by giving them money while raining. 
We praise Gautamvanshi Tejaswini and Akashputri Usha, who led the truth speech lovers. Oh, Usha! Give us food containing sons, grandsons, helpers, horses and cows. 
O agni! You come close to us. O agni! You flow in the river with badvagni. O agni! You are the bile of water. Mandukki should follow agni. You get out of the earth. Enter the water. You make this yajna of ours sacred and welfare. (6)
This stotao! Call upon Indra, Vayu, Jupiter, Mitra, Agni, Pusha, Bhaga, Adityas and Marudganas. 
Those whose intellect is fixed in God, who are wholly absorbed in God, with firm faith in him as the supreme goal, such persons quickly reach the state from which there is no return, their sins having been dispelled by the light of knowledge.
 O Mon! You are pure, sweet and beautiful. You are refined for Bhaga, Vayu, Pusha, Mitra and Varuna. 
I associate the host who desires fruit and is the sponsor of yajna karma with fruits like animals, sons etc. People living in all four directions and those directions should give this host an elated fruit. I offer in the agni of Havi containing Ghee, Ksheer etc. for the purpose of you gods. (3)
Agni Dev, the destroyer of demons and removes diseases, should walk near them to destroy them. Agni Dev is approaching this man, devouring demons who are elusive, gentle, violent and frightening, seeking faults of others, suffering and disturbing demons. (1)
O Indra! Give us the increased enthusiasm that your zeal that destroys and undefeated enemy armies. We will be protected by you and will praise you for the benefit of the Son and grandson because of the same zeal. 
Always singing my divine glories, striving with great determination, and humbly bowing down before me, they constantly worship me in loving devotion.
O Indra! Fill your stomach with somerasa like the new one, just as you complete it with the nectar of heaven. May you get the best praise related to the item of this squeezed someras and the joy of heaven here too. (2)
O Maruto! Just as the birds that fly in a row fly forcefully over a high and huge mountain and fly all over the sky, so do you fly. Both gods and men know that your horses drop water from the clouds. 
Som was the one who wanted the bride. Both Ashwinikumars were witnesses to them. Then Savita gave surya, who praised her heart, as a donation in the hands of her husband. (9)
O ghost! We install you in a pitra devta named Swadha, already located in the south direction from the place of combustion and covered with a blanket. Just as the earth donated by the donors to the Brahmins follows heaven in the upward direction, similarly the father god named Swadha follow you. As the fruit of virtue, we worship those who initiate the way to heaven through Havi. O Gods! You become participants in this yajna. (31)
The lord of the lamp and the lord of the havi is ignited with agni praises. His form is called by Ghrit and the leaders praise him with a gathering. Fire burns well in front of Usha. 
May the earth give us life again. May space and space give us life again. Mon give us the body again. Give us the self-styled sentence. 
O air! Come to this yagna of ours by locking up the sleeping hosts due to laziness, where the word of stones is being generated to crush the somras. Indra do the same. Where sweet and factual praises are taking place, where ghee is being taken for the sake of home, go to the yagnasthala with your horses called Nyut. 
O agni! We have invited you. You are situated within the ukha and be pole (fixed). You remain unflinching. Everyone wants you. By the grace of yajna, the entire nation should be saved from being corrupt (and tarnished). (11)
O deserters! Send your beloved horses to our yajna. Oh my friend! Come to our yajna to get the havya. Indra, Varuna and Aditya, the quick-killed and leader of the enemy in the war, sit on the cushions laid down by us. 
If the stolen cow of a Brahmin is sold, it uproots the stolen one. After selling, it weakens the stealer. (6)
O wind! Venus wants to hold you. You plough your horse in the chariot. You listen to us. Rush to the destination (host's house). (29)
O you who shower grace, Ashwinikumaro! Listen to our call by all the gods, which are selectable and different, and come with all those means of protection. O achashinikato, those who want to be happy, give more money and defeat many enemies in wars! Come here with the defense means by which you increased the water of the well. 
O Indra! You made the water held by the Vrithra Asura free to flow and destroyed the fortified water resistance of the cloud. You became the king of the people, illuminating the sun, usha and heaven together. 
O burn! The Taurus i.e. bull in you is able to serve through the mantras of Yajurveda and is united with the gods. I send him towards my enemies. May the Taurus of water strengthen me. I chant them with the magic done by this mantra and with the Taurus-like weapon of water. (18)
I am the enjoyer and the only Lord of all sacrifices. But those who fail to realize my divine nature must be reborn.
To the soul who is aspiring for perfection in Yog, work without attachment is said to be the means; to the sage who is already elevated in Yog, tranquility in meditation is said to be the means.
 O Indra! Your horses are tied in the chariot with the effect of the mantra. Your horses have long hair on their necks. Those hundreds of horses should be tied in your golden chariot and bring you to the yagna for sompan, this is the request. 
O great Ritvizzo! To get the donation you serve that revered Indra. Indra is worthy of being called to reach the lower places for water and to win the war. 
O Ribhu.o! You are healthy horses and radiant chariots. Your chins are like iron. You are the master of food and the best donor. O sons of Indra and children of strength! This morning yajna has been done for your happiness. 
Reaching into the character, Mon brightens up the character's look. The desireful and powerful Som knows to give a lot of money to the stotas, with the help of their intellect, get good deeds and tear apart the watery cloud surrounded in the sky. 
Along with the Maruts, Indra's army is also sitting near Indra. The Maruts extended indra to the vast hymns. Just as the cows come out when the closed seminar opens, so the rainwater came out from within the dark cloud. 
O you who are blessed, Maruto! Your yajna is done at home. You come, including your defenses, don't go. 
O Indra! You have destroyed the elusive shushna by deceit. Those who know this thing, you protect them. 
O Sacrificial God! You are jyotirmaya (light). Spread your light even more. You are as stunning as Samidha. By your grace, we can also wear that radiance. (25)
Deserts want to rain water with the rays of the shining sun, which the creatures need, they eat havya with hymns and hymns. The dynamic and fearless deserts with the expression of adornment have taken special places. 
We wear the som who follows water, who blesses the living beings, who satisfies the gods, those who praise the gods, the splendour of the yagna and the splendor of the lamp and ask them for power. Today we ask the gods for the same famous defense. 
Through their intellects worthy of worship, the sages knew the stotra of Ashwini Kumars. Therefore, you should irrigate the sweet Somaras with Atharva. (2)
O Indra! We pray for your arrival with the desire of horses, cows and food, we know you to be the giver of happiness, so we call you by making this new hymn. 
Oh patient! Through yajnasamgri, I deliver you from tuberculosis and rajayakshama disease. I do this for your life. If this patient is caught by an evil planet, then Indra and Agni should rescue him from him. 
 O agni! You are the richest and the refuge of all. You come to us easily. You be dyuman 
Brahmachari, producing those grains etc., doing penance on water, remains present on the ocean. Bathing purifies and turns yellow with kabre color and is more bright on the earth. That is, shines more (26)
O friend, enough for Varuna and the wind, the possessor of heaven, the best and the beloved of Indra, Mon! Just as rivers enter the ocean, so you enter the Dronakalash. 
May Indra Dev, who welfare his devotees, the guardian of the gods and goddesses of the people of man, the one who kills the vritra demon, the undefeated, the soma drinker, the fearless doer and the giver of the opinion fruit, tie that glorious gem in your arm and save you from all fears day and night and from all sides. (22)
Havi's paddy is obtained from Ashwinikumar. Agnischa is obtained from Saraswati Devi. The yajna is presented by the Havi Devgans in the house, in the palishala and in the garhapatya agni, according to the opulence of Indra Dev. (18)
O Gandharva with qualities like charity etc. In this upward direction, you become our protector. Jupiter is your arrow. Let them protect us. We greet you and offer sacrifices. (6)
Hey Mon! After you have drunk, let me shine well like a churned agni, and look well and make me very rich. I praise you for your item. You become rich and be strong. 
O agni! You are a giver and a donor. You protect humans. Please listen to our words, protect our children and us. (77)
O Great one, who are even greater than Brahma, the original creator, why should they not bow to you? O limitless One, O Lord of the devatās, O Refuge of the universe, you are the imperishable reality beyond both the manifest and the non-manifest.
Savita Dev, Parvat and Vidhata give us eyes. 
Aryama and Varuna show the path of yajna for us. Fire, the lord of the havirup grain, shows us the way of the journey happily. May Indra and Vishnu, after listening to the praises well, give us the son-grandson riches and the delightful pleasures of power. 
May God protect me with his power for the stability of the soul, for the stability of the apana, for the growth of age, for the brightness of the body, for the skilled and for the adornment of the property. May This sacrifice be well received by Kamadeva (9)
You are going to do the interest and best work of the gods in various ways. You live in Param Vyom. Sura, you are strong. This Som is of a different nature. Don't commit violence against him as you enter his native place. (7)
The deities B Vaidya Ashwinikumar expanded the yajna. Saraswati expanded the yajna by holding capacity in the senses for Indra Dev from Bani. (12)
O agni, give us enough cows, horses and thousands of son-grandsons. Open the door to food for our fame. Make the earth and sky compatible with us because of our best sacrifice. Just as the sun illuminates the world, so let ushas illuminate you. 
The nightmare that we suffer from in the waking state by general violence, excessive violence and the violence of those who turn away, the same nightmare in sleep also makes us suffer. May the Agni God remove all those indecent sins from us for the sake of evil self.' (2)
Hey Mon! You bring a group of cows and money from the panies and say the word that extends the yajna. 
We go to the yagna by waking up and motivating Dadidra Dev through hymns, installing Ida Devi on the Kushas and calling those meritorious Ashwinikumaras who invoke Shobhan. 
Put the materials produced in the shoes of the feet, in the paddy hut and from the best earth. (2)
O agni! You make me dear to the gods. Make me dear to kings too. May I be dear to all the onlookers, shoots and Aryans. That is, be the beloved of everyone. (1)
The beautiful stotas praise Som, people with a good intellect want to perform yajna for Som and the mindless people drown in hell. 
O act! The agent has placed you in the flesh of a chicken or a goat or on a tree. I return you to him who sent you. (2)
O Rohit Dev, the motivator of spiritual strength, the creator of spiritual strength, whose strength is worshiped and who is the master of the creature, the criminal of such an angry God and the violent of the learned Brahmin! You vibrate and make it weak and tie it to your loops. (24)
Those with a long nose, satisfied with the lives of others, the two dogs who are extremely sacrificial and the messengers of Yama, today, give us a welfare life here to see the sun. 
 O Indra! You are very strong. No one can beat you. You protect us in all kinds of wars, big and small. 
O Rudra! Don't want to kill our cows, sons, nephews, etc. Don't think of violence against our goats and sheep. O mighty Rudra! Leave us and drive your weapon elsewhere and kill the children of god-violent people. (21)
The gods and the host who are protected by the wind worship reverence. People serve reverence because of the determination of the mind and get wealth because of reverence. 
The man who serves through the inflammable committees of garhtayatadi indivisible by the shape of this agni, by his yajnakamo, becomes a man of adornment, and overcomes all human beings through the glorious glorys as water transcends all obstacles and moves forward. 
Yamraj does not kidnap the semen of the hosts who cook the broad-based brahmaudan with wide ingredients in the manner mentioned. As long as they live in the land worthy of the chariot, they sit on the chariot or cross the present world over space with sides and are full of enjoyments. (4)
O Arjun, those who eat too much or eat too little, sleep too much or too little, cannot attain success in Yog.
This Indra is the one who won heaven to drink somras with the maruts. 
Pavman Som had created satyarup, broad and glorious brightness, ending the black darkness. 
I describe the ancient works of Indra. I also say the new things that Indra has done. Indra has defeated the maya of the asuras, so somras is only for Indra. 
O stotao! Wake up the Ashtini Kumars in the morning. O God of truth! You make the psalms praiseworthy. He was! Spread the glory of Ashwini Kumars everywhere. (2)
O aschinikumaro! The people who uproot Kush, the rich and the more sacrificial ones call you. 
Indra, the unique giver, the one who fulfills desires, the slaughterer of the violent, the serious, the seeable, the most industrious, the motivators of the rich, the cut off enemies, the firm-bodied, the world-wide, the brightest and the doer of adornment, Indra created the sun from Usha. 
 O Indra! We presented you somers yesterday too. We still present somersas to you in the yagna. O hosts! You sing the hymn and adorn Indra. 
The agni god which is ignited in the east direction for the creation of the son of Vata, they wear the anti-hostile agni radii. 
 O Mon! You are pure and sweet. Indra and Marudgana drink this someras of yours. 
O herb called Pruschiparni! Destroy the sin of leprosy, etc., which brings down the blood of my body, the accumulators, etc., which prevents the growth of the body, and the sin called kanva, the causative disease that destroys the womb, and defeat my enemies. (3)
O plant! You utter sweet words removing the darkness emanating from sin. Let us overcome our sins. This vegetation should not do me violence, nor should it violence me with the rice that gets me the path of God. (18)
O demon who comes to kidnap the body! May the demons you have sent to us bring poverty back from us. Let the weapons you have also return. Your retainer thieves also go away. Return to the enemy you belong to and eat it. Eat the one who sent you to me. You eat his meat. (8)
O ghost! You know the forms well because of the truth and go to the heaven of Maharishi Angiras etc., in which Aditi's sons eat nectar. Dwell in that third heaven. (3)
Indra eats the food of the bright host who squeezes the somras for his enjoyment. Indra resides in this somarupi ancient food growing. The ritwijs who are interested in praising Indra also reside in it. 
 O Indra! You can't lose to anyone. You give us your strong protection. Help us also in wars where thousands of elephants benefit. 
The ignited agni spreads brightly in the bright sky and expands into the morning and adorns it. The hymns go to the east with the praises of Indra etc., taking a khuch containing purodash, etc. 
O Indra! You stood on the banks of the rivers and provided the kings named Yadu and Turvash with water that was going to increase the vegetation. O Indra! You and The Dogs went to fight the invader Shushna. You killed the terrible shushna and brought the dogs home. Then all the gods along with ushana poet welcomed you. 
When there is blue and red clothes or the man is angry, then only this act, that is, the woman with a destructive nature, grows and the human beings of her race increase. Due to this, her husband is tied in bondage. (26)
The deserts who fall with the flowing and powerful waters of the clouds, we will perform yajna for the same great-sounding maruts and get the happiness given by them. 
Because of friendship, the benefactor of man, the God of all, the admired Indra by all, is repeatedly consumed by a person like me. O the guardian and knight of the gentlemen Indra! In all the hard work and power that is accomplished and for the sake of water, everyone worships you. 
Just as Indra, the swami of the three worlds, receives the praise of the sages of the Kanva tribe, just as the Sun like Dyava, Aryama, etc. meet their inspirational Indra, in the same way, the sage of the Bhrigu dynasty takes refuge in Indra and praises Indra, a man with a beloved intellect. (2)
O fire! You should consume the greeting and wish to listen to the beloved hymns. O pleasing, the food-rich, the fire of yajna-generated and adorned-wise fire! You are the protector of all the world, friendly to all, as the lord of all the visible, delightful and abundant food. 
O juice made from the tree! May your limbs be firm. You are our friend, the one who crosses us with enemies and the one with the heroes of Shobhan. You are firm because the cow is tied to ropes made of skin. The man sitting on you is going to conquer enemies. (1)
I call for this easy-to-go cow. Give this cow a good hand to this cow. May everyone's motivator Savita Dev provide us with the best milk. (7)
O rudradeva, who is yellow, a workman, an all-knowing, a bright man and who hears a call! In this yajna, make such an idea that you should never be angry with us or kill us. We will receive the best son and grandson and speak many praises in this yajna. 
    O agni! Our ghee-filled havi is green in your mind. He reached out to you. O agni! Please accept our worship. 
In the huge yagna in which the devas sit, Som desires many deeds. 
The food persons prefer is according to their dispositions. The same is true for the sacrifice, austerity, and charity they incline toward. Now hear of the distinctions from me.
O Indra! You do not allow the sun to fall, endowed with upward rays like horns. Our yajna is related to drinking someras filled in kunds. You make up your mind to come to this yajna. (7)
When the hosts perform the yajna and ask for shobhan water, soma fills the earth and sky with water. Mon covers the extremely stunning waters by its glory. Ritajisha got to know the place of The Radiushali Som by wearing the mantra. 
O Ritvijo! I have praised Indra through the ancient hymn. Now you also praise them with the ancient verses of yajna. The wisdom of the stotas has been endowed with mantras. (1)
I praise Medha Devi in the morning, evening and midday hours. I establish that noble talent in me through praise words during the day with the rays of the sun. (5)
O agni! The cause of the nectar, the unhindered and filled with sweet water, the divine rivers flow always with the inspiration of the yajna, in the same way that the horse inspired to move forward grows. 
O Indra! Your heroic act of killing vritra is great. Keeping this in mind, we have become your worshippers. O Swami of Wealth Indra! Fulfill the desire of this host by praising. O Indra! Your force measures the great sky. This earth bends because of your force. (5)
Rohini is going to follow Rohit i.e. the red color sun from climbing. She is very beautiful with beautiful color. Because of that, we conquer creatures with different forms. Because of that, we should control the armies. (22)
 O Mon! You are holy. No one can stop you from giving money to your yagyakars, even hundreds of enemies. 
O agni! You know the system and legislation of yajna very well. You are the messenger of the gods. You are pleased to make sacrifices from earth to heaven. Please protect the earth and heaven. Please indra along with other gods to be united in the light with the light satisfied with the ghee. (9)
Directions appeared from them and they appeared from directions. (6)
Indra said, "A lot of cows are gathering and eating barley. I see those cows moving around with the same gwalas as the master. They come to the master when they call the cows. The owner of cows milks a lot of milk from cows." 
O Savita! May the praiseworthy wealth come to us from you. We get the money when the cloud gives the money. May the divine and protector Indra protect us forever. You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O heaven and earth! You be the one providing us fast. We take a fast eclipse and transmit on earth. The owners of cows are located in my possession, food and cows. We should take the coming cows and transmit them to the earth. (3)
O Indra with shobhan semen! You go around the famous rich, pro-people, pro-people, human-friendly and donor host. 
O Indra! You come before us, driving the horses that are wind-speed and walking on a simple path, to whom there is no god or man who knows their power. 
Indra defeaters remove great fears, so they are achakchal and vikvadarastha. 
O glorious and agni! In order to accept Our praise, bring the gods to us in this yajna and give us a havya for their devouring. 
Hosts who fulfill the offerings have received the mares by covering the only agni with mantras. Wise people protect the agni, the abode of water, and hold the divine names of agni in space in their hearts. 
Let our ancient yajna go well to agni and other gods. Let our yajna go near the Adityas, the fasting Varunas and the fasting maruts everywhere. 
O ladies! I'm going to dig yours. Don't you destroy me. Don't destroy even those for whom I dig you. Our two-legged and four-legged creatures are disease-free. 
O agni! Don't indulge in violence against animals and animals. You have thousands of eyes. You have appeared for the yajna. You increase food and animals. You give us glory. Let us live a happy life. Your anger, those who hate us, make them suffer. (47)
O king! As powerful as you, higher than you and inferior to you, an enemy who does not agree with you, Indra should expel him from that nation and establish the king there. (6)
The arrow-holding rudras protect it in the pole direction. One who knows this, Sharva, Bhava and Ishaan do not harm him. Humans and animals who adapt to this. Rudra does not do violence against them. (12)
Hearing the hymns, Indra, who has a beautiful chin, is pleased and destroys the cities of enemies. Who does not know what glory Indra holds when Som is ready? (1)
Know how to make a skin container. The rituals with extreme adornments hold the somapatras used in the pan-karma of the gods. They sharpen the axes made of the perfect iron. Brahmanaspati Tavastha cuts wood from the same axe. 
O agni! You get us back with money. Please increase all the vegetation on the earth with the stream of rain. (41)
Listen to these praises of Vishwadev, Yajnapatra, Heaven, Earth and Fire. Let us not tell you words of praise that do not like you. May we be happy to find happiness near you. 
 O Usha! You are the duhita 
O Jupiter and Indra! You raise us. May your compassion for us be the same. You protect our yajna karma, awaken our intellects and fight against the enemies of us hosts. 
O Ashwinikumaro! Located on the sea shore your boat is even bigger than the sky. You have a chariot to walk on the earth. Somras is also involved in your yajnakarma. 
The deserts make it dark even during the day with the help of clouds carrying water. They water the earth at the same time. 
Aadhavaryu squeezes somras with pieces of stone for you in the same way as milk is made from a cow. Both of you who protect us come close to The Sompan. The people who perform the yajna have squeezed this mon properly for you to drink this mon. 
O agni of uninterrupted speed! You bring us the best money. Meet us with the wealth everywhere and make a way for us to find food. 
Human beings bring the agni that defeats all subjects, speed, messengers of the host, the flag-like knowledge and the radiant agni for the welfare of all the subjects. 
O Agni, Sarita, Goddess Saraswati and Brahmanaspati! Today, provide semen to the male sense of this semen-loving man and tie it like a bow. (6)
Hey Mon! You are cleansed, giving us these riches, truly giving them. Hit the one who is near or far away from shanru and expand our path and give us abhaya. 
O Indra called by many! Even before you had pierced the cloud for the purpose of rain water, Sarma had told you the songs stolen by the panis, praised by the Angiragotriya sages, you gave us a lot of food and respected us. 
Indra wore heaven with green rays and green earth due to medicines. Dyavaparthvi gives enough food to Indra's horses named Hari and Indra moves between them. 
 O agni! You have been satisfied with the lusts. You do us welfare. You are opulent. Give us good money. Make us get welfare sacrifices. May our prayers be auspicious for us. 
May this medicine contain you semen, the essence of men who are superior in semen-enhancing medicines and capable of conception. O Indra! Wear the semen in the confirming medicines in this man's body. (4)
The earth, which is the basis of all beings, enters the whole world. O divine, blessed earth with good fortune and pervading earth! Be the cause of my happiness and save me from sin. (2)
 The holy Someras filters and drips into the pitcher and delivers its sweet juice to Dronakalash. The voice of the sages with seven verses 
Let that chariot of the Ashchinikumaras cover my body with its own brightness, which is specially bright and by thinking only to which the horses are added. O leader Ashwinikumaro! By that chariot you go to fulfill the desire of the psalm and his sons and grandsons. 
 O Indra! You are the king of all people. You are the master of sons and also of sons. 
Those men who serve the agni of kravyad with the desire of wealth, those men always protect others. (51)
Indra, who came to the aid of this king in this battle, should be victorious. He should not be defeated by anyone. May Indra, the swami of all kings, be adorned among these kings. They are praiseworthy and revered by cutting off enemies. O Indra, worthy of service by all! You become worshipped by us in this struggle. (1)
In whose house such a learned fasting guest came at that time, when the agnis have been illuminated and the agni is going on, then the householder himself goes in front of him and says, "O fasting! You command, I will perform havan. (2)
Those who followed celibacy in the absence of a satari, just as Jupiter received it as a part of the yagna by serving the devas, similarly got it from the devas at this time. 
O annalyukta mon! Praises that are not destroyed by anyone praise you. You move towards the Sanskrit place with golden hands by becoming a radiant. O rain-doers and intoxicating Mon! You leave for Indra by increasing the age and great food of the hosts of the havy. 
Deserts milk the entire cloud and properly surround the earth by rain like drops of water. 
O Siniwali! That is, such a new moon! In which the moon is not visible, you have been praised by many people and are the sister of gods. Accept the desire put before you and give us people as sons etc. (1)
Sun is the world form and poet. They do the welfare of two-legs and chaupayas. They are varnya. They inspire everyone. They adorn the sky after Usha Devi leaves. (3)
If, however, you refuse to fight this righteous war, abandoning your social duty and reputation, you will certainly incur sin.
O Indra who dwells in the yajna! You come before these hosts. O Som drinker Indra! You be pleased with the somaparupi food. 
 We worship Agni and Indra with praises. Invite them. We invite both of you to the yagna with the desire for money. 
With all the eyes, Vasha Gau met the sun. Kalyankarini The cow gained more fame than the ocean while wearing light. (15)
I am complete to do the ritual of karma. My body is complete, my soul is full, my eyes, ears, my life air, my apana vayu and my vyan vayu are full. Thus I am complete in all respects. (1)
 O agni! We sacrifice you. You do us welfare. You are lucky. We receive your grace. We are singing welfare praises. You do us welfare. 
    O Mon! You are very strong. You are thousands of times stronger. You are full of water. You go to Dronakalsh, filtering with a sieve made of sheep's hair. 
They sing the chitkabare colours in all the three sawans mix the Somras related to Indra with their milk, which can enter the birthplace of the devas and the favorite dulok of Aditya and whose milk can fill the well. 
With the help of Indra Dev, we should subdue the enemy's wealth sitting in front of us. Hey Jar! We weaken your auspicious and bright semen through the karma related to Varun Dev. (2)
Satisfied with the havi given by us that provides stability, Indra has established this king stably in this nation. Som has called this king his own. This is what Brahma Dev, who follows the Veda zodiac sign, says. (3)
When the shushna asura fell on the earth due to the vajj, all his power was destroyed. Indra carried the chariot forward with his charioteer kuts in order to attain the sun. 
May the earth and the sky be gracious to me and give me the desired fruit. May the glorious and great sun protect me from the south direction. May the Goddess, who belongs to the ancestors and the presiding deity of Swadha, grace me. Soma, Agni, Vayu Savita and Bhaga protect me. (1)
O mighty agni! Your beloved fast is illuminated around the time of day. Your light and visible brightness is visible even at night. O agni! Ritwiz etc. add greasy and beautiful food to you. 
Horses going far and wide walk through the sky and bring the maruts and give food to those who praise them. 
The givers of agni are the givers of the people of agni, the holders of wealth, the givers of the desired things, the protectors of the Somras, the settlers of all, the sons of power, who are in the waters and the masters of all. The agni ignited at the beginning of the morning holds a special splendor. 
O mother-like drugs! Your births are hundred and your ascents are thousand. O a hundred-doers! You make me healthy. 
O God! The basic money from which I do business while wishing for profit money, it should be happy for me. O agni! While performing this havan, stop the gods who obstruct the benefit from the divine by satisfying them. O Gods, my wealth should increase, not decrease, due to your influence. (5)
Those who sanctify the agni, are very great and eat thick wood, they are whitewashed, word-making, spaceless, with endless and thundering maruts, and very young. 
O Indra! Inspire us to come to the wealth that is selective, beautiful and possesses the truth. (11)
Agni, Indra and Somdev - may all these gods drive away my enemies. (13)
We perform yajna with our mind. We offer ghee with our heart. Please the gods to come to this knowledge and increase the truth. Devgan is vishwapati, the creator of the world, Vishwakarma and the anguish of the world. We provide havi for them. (78)
After the usha that comes like a cow, agni is ignited by the committees of adhwaryu etc. The crests of agni are great. The agni moves towards the sky like a tree with wide branches. 
O Indra! The people who perform the yajna of Fire, the husband of Swaha Devi, praise your own karma in sequence, the stotas praise you for getting quick money. 
O satyaswaroop aschinikumaro! Come to us with the new velocity of a horse with the same love and admirable speed. We call you to the rising period of Usha with a suitable gift. 
 O Mon! You are the swami of all splendour and divine. You are the protector of human beings 
The bright, full of food, placed in the squeezing vessels and in this yajna the present Soma pleases Indra with his deeds. 
O Shur Indra! None of your additions is going to increase. Apart from you, there is no one to help and give good in the struggle. There is no Indra of the host other than you. 
O Vachaspati! In the five seasons that have been created by our karma, our soul should be fixed by the feelings of a friend. O Prajapati! May the sun hold you with its brightness and age. (18)
O jealous man! Your jealous mind is that no one should see this woman. By calming this mind, we calm your heart-rending grief and anger. (1)
Sarma said, "Hey pani! I am indra's messenger and i have come from his sending. I came from the desire to take the cows collected by you. The water of the river saved me by being afraid of my jump. That's how I crossed the river water." 
O sons of Kushikgotriya! Go to the horse and be careful. Leave the horse of King Sudas to get wealth by Digvijaya. King Indra had hit Vrithra in the east, west and north directions. King Sudas perform yajna in the best part of the earth. 
O Indra, the somras drinker! You come to our Trishvan Yajna to drink somras. You are the master of wealth. Your happiness causes you to give cows. 
O wise agni! You recognize the feeling of human hearts. You know about both the host and god. You are as good-doers of the people as a friend's messenger. 
It is because of that chariot that our intellect becomes upwards in the praise of the Ashwinikumaras. Our praises reach them. We make the havya tasting. The guards come. O Ashwinikumaro! The daughter-in-law named Urjani climbed on your chariot. 
In the yajna of the host, the agnis consuming the havi rise up as many flames and come in front of everyone, measuring the north altar of the yajna. 
They alone truly see, who perceive the Paramātmā (Supreme soul) accompanying the soul in all beings, and who understand both to be imperishable in this perishable body.
O God of Agni! According to our belief, we should get a groom with all the characteristics and want a girl and due to good luck, this kumari of ours should get a groom, this kumari should be happy to find a groom with the same heart and please him too. The place of residence with the husband is fortunate for this. (1)
O Mon! Please shower nutritious juices and food. You satisfy with nectar. You are famous in heaven. Please be stable forever. (113)
O agni! Make the animals like cows etc. of our use praiseworthy. May all human beings bring money as an offering for us. Just as the son gets wealth from the old father, in the same way, the host serves you in the places of many devyagyas and gains wealth. 
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemy. You are situated in agriculture and sharp of food. I demonstrate my valour in agriculture and remove it from agriculture. Let the one we hate or who hates us be destroyed. Give up life. (34)
 O Indra! You drink more somers. You are very powerful and very energetic. With this energy 
O spoon called khuva! You ascend to the earth, and the host may also be distinguished on the earth. O characters named Ayavrit! You climb on space. O character called Juhu! You go to Dyulok i.e. heaven with the host and exploit the desired fruits from all directions. (6)
Let us walk to Indra with the desire to get the cows stopped by the Panai Asura. Indra is free from violence and enhances our good intellect. After this, they give us the best knowledge about this gorupa dhan. 
 O hosts! Indra is a food provider, enthusiastic, glorious and excellent hero. They listen to our prayers very carefully. They conquer the accumulated wealth of enemies. They are enemies. We want their help. We therefore invoke them. 
O you who are visible and workable! You took out the sage Vandan from the well. He crossed bhuju, the son of Tugrah, through the sea and made the sage Chyavan a young man again. 
Oh, God! We have come to a moving go-uncommunicated place. The vast earth here gives joy to the Dyajunas. O Jupiter! You inspire us in finding cows. O Indra! Thus tell the way to The Psalms while experiencing grief. 
May the mons, who are restrained, created, sanctified, and known to all by the ritwijas, give us all the wealth. 
O agni! In order to receive the best days, I set you up in the best place of the earth. O rich agni! You burn on the banks of the rivers Drishti, Apya and Saraswati, including the human beings. 
The son of rivers rubs ten fingers to Som. Som meets with Aditya. 
Mourning the whole body from all sides, which is this bile fever, contaminates the blood of all beings and makes them yellow like haldi. Salutations to that blood color and yellow color and serving fever. (3)
O Indra! Your prosperity is famous everywhere, by which you are able to protect the hymns. Don't end your desire to make us great. Let us get all your human things. 
 O Indra! Accept the dedicated havi by us. Don't let our desires go blank. You are going to bear fruit as soon as possible. 
The ancestors are as bright as agni. They come here. Please sit in the Yagya Sadan. Sit on the seat of Kush. Father, may we be pleased to hold wealth and superior heroes for the host. (59)
Red colored horses are added to the front of the chariot to carry the air load. They are extremely moving and capable of carrying loads. Just as the jar awakens the woman lying in the sleep, so you warn the yajnakar host for the havan. By illuminating the earth and the sky, you establish the ushakaal for attaining the auspiciousness. 
O thunderbolt Indra! Both the revered, the famous, the doers and your strength, the desert and you are capable of the desired movement on earth. 
The whole village is quiet. The birds that run on the feet and the moving hawk birds are all sleeping. 
O Indra! Did the sages before us surpass your full glory? You created your parents from your body. 
There are three hymns being spoken in the form of Rik, Yaju and Sam. The pleasing songs are rambha. The green ones go on doing the word som. 
The sages who had joined the ritvajas had soon attained immortality even though they were dying by doing yajna, daan, etc. At that time, the sons of Sudhanva and the bright tambhus like the Sun had gained authority in the yagnas that lasted till Samvatsar. 
 Someras Arun 
O pitro who sit on the cushions! At this time you protect us. We have prepared these things for you, you must consume them. You come and protect us while doing us well. May you make us happy, wipe out our sorrows and make us sinless. 
You should thus perform your prescribed Vedic duties, since action is superior to inaction. By ceasing activity, even your bodily maintenance will not be possible.
O radiant and radiant som! You give us a lot of grain. Hey Mon! Tell us the way to heaven. 
Agni mahabal, excellent food and animals etc. are the masters of wealth. The very young and food-rich agnis give delightful wealth to the host who serves them. 
This is the agni! Just as you cross the river by boat, so you take us to a land without enemies for our welfare. Let our sins be destroyed. 
 O Mon! You make us strong and dutiful. Destroy enemies and make us happy. 
O omniscient agni! May your conscious, ever-moving, good-pleasing, lazinessless, violence-free, never-ending, interconnected and protective rays sit in our yagna and protect us. 
O host! Your mother and father find upward movement from the front part of the tree. From the upper world, your ancestors appear to be adorned by showering from the clouds, as if they say, "We are happy with you." (24)
You are the destroyer of Vishnu's might and enemies. You are dependent on medicine and sharp of Soma. I display my might in medicines and remove it with medicines. The one I hate or who hates us. Let it be destroyed. Give up life. (32)
O Maruto! You must give a lot of food to the one who wears the haavya and listen to our adornment, the way in which the deserts go never destroys the beings. May they raise us with their desired defenses. 
O God! Make our yajna a cow, horse, food and servant for our consumption. 
The creator of the universe and the semen-producing dau is also our father. The navel, that is, the middle part of the earth and the sky, is my brother. Mahiasi Prithvi is my mother. It holds rainwater as a medicine. The sky and the earth hold the air in the form of formulas. The father's mother conceives in the form of rain in the earth. (12)
Those who fight to strike independent Indra, who make pairs of strong men, I praise the same Indra with the desire of fruit and do havan again and again for him. May he redeem me from sin. (7)
O radiant, divine and drinkable mon of the gods! You sprinkle to make us immortal and give us huge houses. 
The first eight ghosts i.e. elements were born from the season. O Indra! They are the eight divine rithiju. Aditi, with eight yonis and eight sons, takes havya on the night of Ashtami tithi. (21)
The bright hosts purify the water-soaked and all-clad Mon on the dashapavitra made of sheep's hair and pray to Som like an angel to tell the gods their point of view. 
 O agni! You illuminate earth, space and heaven. You are going to call the gods. You sit in the water as a badvanal. You are adorned as a yajnaagni in the yajnasthan. 
O Indra and Agni! On your way to his place, the sage Ushana asked you, "What have you come to our house for?" You fall so far away and come to our house from the earth only out of grace." 
 O Indra! You are determined, somerous drinker, strong, glorious. You are also keen to make the host glorious. The hosts duly worship Indra. 
O Indra! You go near the money. O enemy-strapped Indra! You give us the money of the one who does not donate. 
There is no end to my divine manifestations, O conqueror of enemies. What I have declared to you is a mere sample of my infinite glories.
"Aditi kept Indra in the womb for hundreds of months and years. Why did Indra do this contrary to the rule?"  On hearing this, Aditi replied, "O Vamdev! Indra cannot have the sameness with any of those who have been born or will be born in the future." 
The Supreme Lord said: This form of mine that you are seeing is exceedingly difficult to behold. Even the celestial gods are eager to see it. Neither by the study of the Vedas, nor by penance, charity, or fire sacrifices, can I be seen as you have seen me.
The agni that opened the stop doors of the cows of the panais is Shobhankarma. They had found a revered group of more milch cows for us. The summoners of the gods, the happy ones and the calm-minded remove the darkness of the agne night and the hosts. 
The substances that have been brought to injure and conquered enemies are ours. Truth, glory, glory, heaven, animals, children and all brave men are ours. We remove the son of a woman with such a tribe and such a name from this world. He should not be free from the bondage of the substances of the seasons. We wrap his glory, strength, life and age and make him fall down with his face down. (21)
O agni with a bright and knowledgeable mind! As we approach you, we men praise you for satisfying the possible. 
We celebrate Surawan, situated on the seat of Kush and the best hero with namaskars. We elaborate the glorious yajna with namaskars. While wearing soma for the gods present in heaven, the hosts enjoy Indra Dev and are very happy. (32)
 O Mon! You are holy, adorned in the highest place, brightest to brightest, green beauty and happy to everyone. Maruds also help you to strengthen you. 
O Indra and Agni! Great, destroy the enemies by your own speed, challenging each other and trying to fight each other. You destroy those who do not wish for the gods with the help of the host who squeezes the somras and desires the gods. 
I salute the Jyeshtha Brahm, who is situated by spreading these past, future and present times and whose form is only light. (1)
O burn! The divine page ashma in you is worthy of service by the mantras of Yajurveda and is united with the gods; I send him towards my enemies. May the divine surface of water strengthen me. I destroy them with the magic done by this mantra and with the weapon of Ashma, the divine surface of water. (20)
Rohita elevated the earth with praises and told him that whatever the past and future may be, they should arise from you. (54)
O agni! Do I worship false gods or am I a worshiper of the gods who do not give fruit? Then why are you afraid of me? Only those who lie get your violence in particular.  
The radiant som words are made pure on the dashapavittra by the ritvijas and make the indrarshi sound. 
O great agni! We serve you a lot through praises, committees and goodwill. O son of strength, agni! We serve you on the altar through hymns and hymns of praise and seek your welfare grace. 
Hey Mon! Just as grass is given to the horse that goes into the battle, you give the money of enemies to those who win in the battle. 
 O Mon! You are prepared by filtering with a sieve for indra's satisfaction. Please sit in your place in the yajna. 
O Shataudana Gau! Your hair is in the form of Kushas and the sacrificial altar is your skin. This rope is tying you. May this stone dance over you. (2)
The white-footed horses of the Sun, pulling the golden yoke chariot, give special light to the humans. humans and the whole world go near the Sun God for light. 
O agni! You were revealed by Sage Angira. Hidden you discovered and revealed in Forest forest. You are born from arani manthan. They tell you to be of all importance. You are the son of Shaktimaan and Angira. (28)
 O Ashwinikumaro! Please encroach upon others and come to us. You are an enemy destroyer. By your grace, we can conquer our enemy. You are the one with a chariot of gold. You are rich. You flow like a river. Please listen to our prayers. 
O my opponents! I control your minds through My mind and your minds through My mind. Come and all of you also control your hearts with Me. All of you also follow Me according to My will and be compatible with Me. (6)
O glorious agni! You protect the bodies of us rich and our sons by your protective power. Our grandchildren are always engaged in your yajna. You protect their cows. 
O agni! You are Varun and a friend. Vasishthagotriya sages increase you by hymns. May the money living in the boom be accessible to us. You protect us from welfare measures. 
O Lord Indra! You come from around. For you to drink, I give swaha bol and somras. O indra of the bright soul! You rule the jhuloka, so go to the jhullok. 
O agni! You are the first born. You are the skin of Varun Dev's navel, animals, dopas and chaupas. You are located in Param Vyom. Don't be violent towards us. We instruct you towards wild camels. You increase your body with them. You get angry with the camels and those who hate us. (50)
The host who gives the best money to the ritwiz receives renewable food. We beg Suvira Ila for that host. She destroys the enemy, but no one can kill her. 
 O gods! You make this Som strong, so that they can fulfill our wishes. Make us strong. 
O Mon, who inspires the water and shakes all the enemies! Be the one who gives us wealth by your power. 
O Jnanvan Aadhvaryu! Place the north arrow facing down on the lower wall. At the same time, the pregnant arna should produce a workable agni. In it was the darkness of the agni. The illuminated ones appeared in the agni arnay created in the north altar and the son of Ida, i.e., the son of Ida. 
 O hosts! Someras is the main means and instrumental in yajna. In both ways, that is, divinity and materiality, he is powerful from both points of view. You mix somers in water just like children mix with the mother. 
Indra Dev roars towards enemies. They are brave, destroyer of powerful enemies and happy with the sacrifice of ghee. For Indra Dev. May Indra Dev make everyone happy with amrit. (46)
O Pawman Mon! Give us the rich house of the unspoken enemy and make us with grain with children. 
O woman! Just as the inspiring sun of all quickly pervades this heaven and earth, so I will pervad your mind. Just as you do not go anywhere near me wishing for me, so I subdue you. (3)
May the medicines, the people, the water groups, the sky and the region be the beeeching for us. Let us avoid the violence of our enemies and follow them. 
O Indra! Listen to my praise. Don't despise it. We deserve your money. The ghee dripping like a flowing river increases you by the desire to get money from the havya havan. 
O agni! You are the one to appoint the king, leader and public welfare of the earth and yajna. You hold a high place in heaven. You are a power carrier. You take havi from your tongue. (15)
Indra's sompan intoxication is sufficient, serious, widespread, anti-hostile and pleasing in war. 
Run after the great agni maha agni. They become the protectors of its senses and eat odan i.e. rice. (11)
The host whose havity the sages sharpen the desert to bear goes to the goth containing many cows. 
O Maruto! This hymn and this eulogical voice are pleasing and you get to strengthen the body. Let us receive strength, food and vibrant donations." 
Friends and Varuna, Dyava-Prithivi, Indra and Aryama give us the money admired by the same hymns. Aditi Devi give us money. Air and clitoris plan the same money for us. 
 O Mon! You are a Brahmin. You feed everyone's mind like a child. Deserts refine you. Poets praise you with poems. You become holy while making a sound. 
This is the first born Usha of today, who was born at the beginning of creation and destroyed darkness. The same Usha rises in these other visible ushas. There is unlimited glory in this usha. It is inhabited by Sun, Agni and Soma. The wife of the sun, may usha be the best of all, giving light to the creatures. (4)
O Swami of Wealth Indra! You stop our enemies from all four directions east, west, north, south. In this way, we will be happy with the happiness given by you. (1)
While wishing for the gods, the green varnas are purified by the som dashapavittra placed on the skin of the cow and placed by the sage Jamadagni. 
Those who are surrounded by deep darkness are called asurayas. Those who are going to violate the soul, they get the same worlds in the form of ghosts. (3)
The man who serves the masters of all the worlds, Ashwinikumaras from time to time, is known to friends and Varuna. He throws weapons at the demon of Mahabali and a man who speaks abusive words. 
 O Mon! You are pure and gratifying. Please punish the wicked. We call upon you. 
The sons of earth marudganas wear bright ornaments while adorning themselves. They destroy all enemies. Water flows down by following their path. 
O agni! Please give us to Barun Dev. Let's drink nectar. You are the age giver. By your grace, we may long life. Please give us rudra dev. Please give us to Jupiter. Please give us to Yama Dev. (47)
O Indra! Our fathers received all the best wealth by becoming your praises. Your songs are easy to repeat and you are the master of the wonders. You give more to the desires of the gods. 
Varun Dev, being acharya, produces water only. That Varuna gets whatever he wants from his janak Prajapati i.e. Brahma, by becoming a friend god and getting it from his body through the greatness of his celibacy. (15)
The sound of the thunder of agni is similar to the sound of thunder of the cloud. They soak the earth like a cloud. Samidhavan Agni illuminates heaven and earth. They shine between heaven and earth. (33)
O burn! This gold is your heart and this frog is your calf. O be able to bear the fruit of opinion! In this dug place, the grass thrown on top of the frog grows, in the same way you become a steady flow in it. I will enter you in this dug-up space. (7)
O brahmachari! For the attainment of age and brightness, I relate you to the bright sun of seasons, months and samvatsaras. (13)
O Indra! You are the one who kills the great demon and gives unlimited food to everyone. You come to a place adorned with cow and make us full of strength. (3)
O Jupiter! Give us happiness forever. We also demand the human-friendly power that you have to alleviate diseases and remove fears. Let the god who gives the abode and the god of adornments follow us in the same way as the charioteer takes the chariot away from the high and low place. 
Great transcendental happiness comes to the yogi whose mind is calm, whose passions are subdued, who is without sin, and who sees everything in connection with God.
The rays of Sun are similar to the shining agni. They see the whole world one by one. 
O act! Who ordered you to go away. He has behaved against us. Go back to Him and do not desire us innocent. (7)
O Indra! You subjugate all the things that arise with your force. You subdue all the powers. (8)
O Indra! Just as you have been drinking somras with your well-made and long tongue so far, drink it today. Taking somers, Adhwaryu is standing in front of you. O Indra! May your vajra, who wants to conquer the cows of the shantrus, destroy the enemies. 
Indra opened the meghrupi gate and flowed the water through the water group with velocity. When the host who performs shobhan-yajnakarma wears a beautiful havan for Indra, he gets wealth and animals called Gaur and Gawai. 
O Indra of a hundred yagnas! All the people of the world have desires. O thunderbolt Indra! We also get the desired items. 
Swaha for asav. Swaha for vasav. Swaha for Vibhu. Swaha for Vivaswata (Sun). Swaha for Ganashree. Swaha for Ganapati. Swaha for Abhibhu. Swaha for the overdeva. Swaha for the powerful. Swaha for the serpent. Swaha for the moon. Swaha for Jyotiban. Swaha for the God of Adhimas. Swaha for the guardian of paradise. (30)
That Indra is not despised by others and defeats the power of the one who despises him. In ancient times, at the time of the killing of Vritrasura, no one could defeat the force of Indra, in the same way, his strength should not be defeated even now. (2)
The ghee mixed with curd was edited from that horse-form sacrificial man. The gods named Sadhya made animals like lions, elephants etc. roaming in the forest with air god and animals like cows, horses, donkeys etc. living in the villages. (14)
O enemies Indra! You have done a commendable job. O Shur Indra! You scattered hundreds and thousands of warriors of shambar asuras. You had killed the Shambar Asura, born of the mountain and the destroyer of the yagnadi karma, and followed Divodas with strange means of defense. 
O Indra! You are going to love the ashes. Don't separate your horses from the chariot you're away from us. Come to our yajna only while climbing on a chariot with tears. Come here and drink somerous and be happy. (8)
The supernumerary produced the agni that lived in the upper facing arny. Fires are present in all vegetation. The gyanavan agni dwells at night with great brightness and untouched by darkness. 
This fabric is combustible, hard, non-absorbable, muddy and toxic. Only a Brahmin who knows Surya is entitled to get this bride.' 
O Leader of Heaven Maruto! Like giving fruits, you come to the yajna through horses with your prishti name. You sit on these scattered kushas and drink somras. (4)
We praise the illuminated agni by the samidahas through praises, the one who sanctifies all and the pole agni we hold in our yajna, and the ones who call the meritorious gods, are elected by many, the revolutionaries who are friendly to all, and those who know all beings serve the agni with pleasant praises. 
Pitra consumes it with swadhas like a bed with hundreds and thousands of streams that is spread over space and is going to give food to water. (36)
Swaha for east direction. Swaha for west direction. Swaha for south direction. Swaha for the north-east direction. Swaha for the upward direction. Swaha for the direction. Swaha for the direction of the north. Swaha for the arvachya direction. Swaha for the upward direction. Swaha for the arvachya direction. Swaha for the north direction. Swaha for the upward direction. Swaha for the north direction. (24)
O agni! The man of death cannot attain the sharp radiance of your flame-like body. Your flames, which have a playful nature like a monkey and drink the water of the body, consume this body in the same way as the cow that gives a child for the first time eats its jer. (1)
O agni! You are the protector of the body. You water the rit with a good tongue. You increase yajna with intellect and meditation. Please convey our yajna to the gods. (26)
With their minds deeply attached to worldly pleasures and their intellects bewildered by such things, they are unable to possess the resolute determination for success on the path to God.
O Narada! Hello to you. The vasha is compatible with the praise of the scholar. Which of these is the terrible vasa, which is defeated if you do not donate? (45)
O men! You also do bright deeds by targeting the gods and speak the praises related to the gods. 
Just as the sun and the moon are neither afraid of anyone, nor apprehensive nor destroyed, O my life! Similarly, do not be afraid of enemies, planets, diseases etc. (3)
The sin related to marrying his elder brother before was immersed in the Trinity by the gods of ancient times. Trit established the sin immersed in him in humans. O one who married before the elder brother! For this reason, if the receptive sin god acceptor has received you, destroy it with the Devgan mantra. (1)
Samvatsars are careful to produce fruits and flowers by staying near the medicines. I speak the name Chaitra Adi Manohar of the Adityas. The water that is visible and flowing separately pleases samvatsar for four months and leaves the rest in eight months. 
Hey celibate! Leaving worldly deeds beneficial to men, accept the words related to God i.e. self-study of Veda mantras, become self-controlled and reside with all brahmacharis. (1)
When the husband covers his body with the wife's cloth, then the husband with a beautiful body also becomes graceless due to this sinful manner. (27)
Knowing this truth, even seekers of liberation in ancient times performed actions. Therefore, following the footsteps of those ancient sages, you too should perform your duty.
O praise! Speak hymns for those who listen to hymns, those who are without pride, those who see human beings, the adornment, the giver of joy and the god of agni without death. Like stones, the hosts who squeeze the somras also praise the agni. 
The water that wishes comes on the kushas lying on the altar of our yajna and is situated with the desire to please the gods. O Adhwaryujano! Knowing this, you squeeze somers for Indra. Due to the arrival of water, your Devyagya has been simplified at this time.  
Oh my god! May Vasugana anoint (honor) you with the stotras of Gayatri verses. Rudragan should respect you with trishtup verse. Adityas should respect you with the influence of Jagati verses. Respect you like Vishve Deva Angira with the power of anushtup verse. (65)
Som, while extending the yajna through the three sawans, surrounds himself with the suryakirans and knows the yajna. Som, the guardian of the subjects, goes to the pure pot, receiving the new praises of the host. 
 O Mon! We invite you from the eulogies. We sing praises even while treating and watering you. You come armed, protecting the cow. You are sent to give abundant money. 
Fire is the flag of the world and its womb. By being born, they pervad the heavens and the earth. In the form of Devraj like Indra Dev, he also distinguishes the biggest mountain. Five people worship agni. (23)
This is Savita. This Mon is being presented to you. Please protect it. Do not hurt you demons. This Soma is possessed by the deity after attaining divinity. By your grace, we should also get divinity, wealth and animals. Swaha for you. With the sacrifice made to you, we have been freed from the loop of Varuna. (39)
Those who are adorned with splendour as well as those who are fierce, who are rich in wealth and hostile. O God of fire! You come with those deserters. 
The gods said, "O agni! The beginning, the end and the extraordinary parts of the yajna should be yours in large quantities. Let this whole yajna be yours and bow down respectfully in all the four directions." 
 Many intelligent people worship to protect Agni and Indra. They worship them just as they fight for food. 
O glorious sun! You are the swami of heaven and possess important qualities. You are the people of heaven and you are the master of the people. Sacrifices were extended for you. (18)
The three-wheeled chariot of the Ashchinikumaras appears after being hidden. O wise Ashwinikumaro! Come before us by your chariot to help complete the yajna. 
Six months are said to be of winter season and six months of summer season. Tell us the truth that there is an addition to them. Scholars know the seven beautiful leaves, seven verses and seven initiations. (17)
O dhata! Just as day by day and the seasons go well after the rilus, so the sons born later in front of the father, etc., who were born earlier, do not die. Keep the age of our families stable in the same way. 
May the same Indra make up for our deprivations, give us wealth, give us many kinds of wisdom and come to us with various kinds of food. 
Salutations to death, which destroys all beings. O brahmachari! May prana and apana vayu delight in your body. This man is full of life. This sun should be present in the region, in the earth and in the amritlok. (1)
O Ashwinikumaro! May the horses that are connected in the chariot move everywhere, capable of bouncing and admirable movement bring you. O true ones! Fast-moving horses like water or like a sky-chilling dark bird bring you in front of the human grain. 
I know the earthly mother and the heavenly Father, who is hostile to the Son, with a gracious mind through the mantras invoking them. Both these parents give enough nectar while protecting the hosts with their virtuous power. 
O father of all praises and indra and vishnu, the base of somras in the form of kalash! May you receive spoken praises. Reach out to you as you sing by the psalms. 
 Like Kanva Rishi, the bhrigus also interviewed Indra. They are all over the world like the sun. Bhrigu started glorifying Indra just as the hosts extolled the glory 
O Indra! All the rivers flow according to your power. Those who do the host deeds give you food and hold wealth for you. You have fortified six vast places and you follow the Panchjanas in every way. You deserve praise. 
I remove the destructive disease that causes defects in the body. I call the one who is a good-hearted tejashwi to me. (38)
Oh my friend and Varun! This hymn is the cause of our happiness. O agni! May this hymn make us happy. Let's experience longevity and reputation. Salutations are given to the bright, great and happy sun to all. 
O Indra! You are the one who completes the ashes, increases the number of cows, has a gold body and is like a waterfall. No one can stop the donations you want to give us, so give us money whenever we ask. 
Hey Mon! You must defeat our opponents with your currents, the offspring and the force that many desire. 
There is a man named Narayan, who performs the ritual of yajna with infinite arms, infinite eyes and infinite feet, he expressed the land of seven seas and seven islands from all sides with his glory and was situated in the sky in the form of a ten-fingered heart. (1)
Not even a person with a hundred souls can live by upholding the dignity of the gods. That's why we are disconnected from our peers. 
Let us be the characters of shobhan-grace-intellect and welfare-friendship-spirit of yajnapatra Indra, remove those who hate Shobhan, rakshak and wealthy Indra from us. 
O agni! Those who wear havya, desire for wealth and are born in the Kushik gotra, we call you by praise, knowing the vaishwanar, satyapratijna, giving heavenly fruit, knowing the knower of yajna, the fruit giver, the lord of the chariot, those who go to the yagyas and know the glorious agni with grace. 
I adorn the chariot that finds Indra's cows with called Hari. Everyone serves Indra, who accepts praises. Indra has hindered The dyava-Prithvivi with his power and destroyed the enemy group. 
O ancient agni! We target you and read eternal and new praises. We have performed these yajnas by aiming at the workable agni that knows all beings and is among human beings. 
The sages made chariots for the two Ashwinikumaras, whose speed was the same everywhere and they produced a milking cow. 
Just as the rising sun takes away the light of the stars, I kidnap the glory of maliceous men. (1)
Out of compassion for them, I, who dwell within their hearts, destroy the darkness born of ignorance, with the luminous lamp of knowledge.
O Indra! You cover a wide space. You pervade water with many streams. You possess yajna, the means of knowledge. O Great Indra! Your semen means there are many types of powers. You fill us with animals of many forms like cow, horse, etc. and establish us in Sudha located in Param Vyom. (15)
Oh, Usha! Make light with us, the rich and the enemy away. Make our vast earth free from fear. Separate the enemies and give us the riches of the enemies. O dhanswamini usha! Inspire wealth to come to The Stota. 
O agni! You are the one who delivers the yajnas to the gods, the adhwaryu, the hota, the administrator, the seeker of the yajna, that is, the grandson and the priest from birth. You know all the deeds of Ritvij, so complete our yajna. Let us not be disenchanted by anyone by gaining your friendship. 
O man! You plant seeds in this fertile woman. May this one who holds your semen and his milk like Taurus produce children for you. (14)
We heroes cover our limbs with armor. Varun Dev keep it firm. Som is the king. Make everyone immortal with nectar, Varun Dev is the favorite. May he make us victorious. May God make them happy. (49)
O Indra! You gave the chariot to the Taurus king the means of war. When Taurus was fighting a ten-day war, you protected him. You killed the Tugrah Asura by becoming the helper of King Vetas and promoted a king named Tuji who praised him. 
O Indra! Your arms are the ones who get cows by shanru-vijay and your knowledge is unlimited. You are superior and protect the sacrifices of the hymns in many ways. You are the model of sangramkarta, independent and the power of all beings. That's why the desire to get money calls you in many ways. 
O Indra and Agni! The enemy army, which is ready to strike and is hurting us. Drive them away and don't let them see the sun. 
O you who burn everyone in the end, those with shobhan pragya and the glorious agni! Complete all the agnihotri deeds for the gods. O agni! Stay here and carry our money given to the gods in the same way as the chariot carries something. 
This aforementioned odan i.e. rice is the circle located in the sky of the central God of the solar system. (1)
I send Kravyad Agni, a fan of Uwath, via Pitrayan route. O Kravyad! You are enlightened in your ancestors and stay awake there. Do not come here again by the way of God. (8)
 The sun is shining. They follow the people, make the host healthy, give long life, blow wind and are the protectors of all. Indra is adorned in many forms. They should drink a lot. 
O sing! You should also make the weak man fat with your milk, ghee etc. and make the person with a non-degenerate organ with ornamental organs. O cow with kalyani speech! Make our house ornate. Food made from your milk, curd, ghee etc. gets more praise in the meetings. (6)
Let my barley, wheat, etc. be mixed with food and my word should also be abstract. I should get the grain produced from those essence crops in many ways. (1)
As powerful as the ass, the holy-eulogized and the true friend and Varuna was conceived by Aditi. Aditi held a friend and Varun, who was greater than the great ones and the violent, who also committed violence. 
Annad, who knows this, eats food with water. (6)
Ramtorai has been dug. (2)
The perjanya devas are those in which all the Bhuvanas are located. They have all the three lokas located in them like Dulok etc. and in which water drips from three places. There are three types of cloud-soaking water all around the rain. 
O sun! Even though you are deities, you inspire other gods in action and roam in the sky. The sun illuminates the bright agni like itself. Knowledgeable people know such a sun. (40)
O ghost! You have become pure by sitting on the kushas laid near the pyre. You have been purified by combustion. Know you, the father who left here. Complete your body according to the joints. I make your organs capable through mantras. The meaning is that I give you strength through mantras. (52)
O lord of abode and shur indra! Upgrade us to give great food. O Dhanaswami and Shoor Indra! Try to give us great wealth and great fame. 
Agni and Soma and while imagining the yajna, the sages assumed the power which was the fourth. After this, verses named Gayatri, Trishtup, Jagati, Anushtap and Arki were made. (14)
O Indra! Vishnu, friends and Varuna, who give the great abode, praise you. The power of the maruts is after your item. 
Hey Mon! You go to war to get food. O tolerant Mon! You go to the enemies. You go to kill enemies by becoming the destroyer of our limbs. 
If Indra protects us, our sorrows will end and happiness will come in front of us. Indra is always the doer of mars. (9)
Prajapati composed the yajna to interview those thirty-three devlokas.
O Indra! I am calling you in battles because of your wide body. I already call upon you to avoid defeat in the struggle. O Indra! You are very powerful, know the ways of victory, conquer many enemies and win the war alone. (1)
When the intoxication caused by The Som ascends, Indra holds everyone's shelterable and homely bow. Indra, who conquers the Vritra rakshasa for water, holds the rain-bearing thunderbolt. 
Just as the Sun reveals its rashmigroup-like chest and just as sage Nodha revealed her beloved group of mantras, Usha also reveals herself close to everyone. Usha wakes up the rest of the people by waking up first like a housewife and is the most beautiful of the morning's horrors. 
The perennial gods conceive of herbs, cows, mares and women. 
 O Indra! Your money should never be harmful to us. Your defense means should never harm us. You are the refuge of the world. Please give all the money to human beings. 
Kharak (ghee pot), Chamas, Vayavya, Dronakalash, Stone, Adhishavan (soma crushing stone) from yajna should suit us. From yajna, putabhrit (soma keeping vessel), calling vessel, vedika, kusha, avbhuth bath and shamyuvak should be favorable to us. Please may the yajna be completely fruitful. (21)
 O Mon! You are powerful. You sound like a horse. You give us godhan and ashwadhan. You open the doors of wealth for us. 
O gods of world! You are the protector and follower of men. The havandata host has prepared the somras, you come to receive it. You give people the fruits of the yajna. 
O agni! You stay with all the gods in the yajnashala and listen to our praises, add horses to your chariot showering nectar and bring the parents of the gods, Dyava-Prithvi, to us. Don't leave the gods and stay here. 
Today, destroying darkness and the owner of wealth, Ushas encourages the food-givers to donate somersaults etc. In the thick darkness without consciousness, the sages who did not give charity remained lying unconscious. 
The agni of electricity is unique and just as it destroys trees, in the same way I should also be unique and kill the gambling men today. I will kill the jurors with dice, that is, I will defeat them with dice, I will defeat them. (1)
May the effects of the mentioned effect protect us from all the disturbances. Just as a burning agni abandons water, so let us give up bhava. They should not obstruct us. Hello to this bhava. (8)
The scorpion is being addressed and said - O scorpion! You don't have the force in your hands to hurt others. There is no force in your head either. There is no force in your middle part i.e. waist. Why do you carry a little poison in your tail through your sadistic intellect? (6)
O water god! You are the source of happiness and energy in Bhuvan. Inspire you to do great things to see. (50)
The shining and shukla-coloured ushas rise like waves of water for shobha. Usha, the master of wealth, admired and enriched, makes all places beautiful and easy to live. 
Ten fingers, like watering and inter-sisters, together purify the mon. Those fingers are the motivators of Dhir Som. The green-coloured Mons go towards the sun's wife directions. Som goes to Dronakalash like a fast-moving horse. 
O Fire, lord of wealth! You are the master of great and progenial wealth in the yajna. O rich agni! Give us more money, soothing and rewarding. 
Persons who do not desire fruitive rewards, but seek to be free from material entanglements, utter the word “Tat” along with acts of austerity, sacrifice, and charity.
O Indra! Bring wisdom for us. Just as the Father gives to the Son, so give us wealth. O Indra called by many! We attain the sun every day. 
The somarus squeezed by the fingers tends to kill the dripping enemies. No one can defeat Someras. 
 O Indra! You are worthy of worship. We pray to you to fulfill our wish, just as people carrying water play with it according to their will. 
O agni! You create divine water and sweet stream for the people. Please produce the best disinfectant drugs from those streams. (38)
Panchjans can't escape my sight. I've been to sompan several times. 
O Indra! The stones that crush somlata, the intoxication of somras and the squeezed som are wishing. The yajna in which you are received is going to fulfill the wish. Your call is wishful. 
O Indra! Come here i.e. to our yajna. Your joyful oj caused by drinking someras in somayagas is desired and great for us. (7)
 O Indra! You are gracious to Rum 
O Indra Dev! You cut off Namuchi's head with the foam of water. You are going to compete with all invincible enemies. (71)
O Indra! You are rich. You look at everyone well and equally. We all worship you. You are certainly the complete brother of all of us. You are under the control of those who praise. Please plough horses called Hari in the chariot to fulfill their wishes. (52)
O God of Agni! The deeds we have done without your remembrance and the lack of this yajna ritual, O Agni God who knows the best karma! You protect us from that sin. After this, I should engage in shobhan yagya karma of my loved ones. (1)
 Indra sits at the best place in the yajna. They are commanders and energetics. Their army is organized. They wear weapons. They are hostile, fierce and glorious. Hosts act fast. They worship Indra. 
We don't know the fabric. We are also not familiar with the fabric woven by continuous effort. How can a son who listens to the teachings of the Father who lives in this world speak to another world? 
(Indra says) O host! You give us a boost. We will provide you (Sufal). You definitely (definitely) wear the havi. We will give you the desired results. (The host says) O Indra! We certainly give you havi. You also provide food for us. Swaha for you. (50)
O agni! By which you become a thousand times, by which you become the knower of everything, you come to our yagna from that and please bring all the gods. (55)
May som and praise group give us peace. Give us peace, give us peace in the name of yupas. May the medicines and yagyadevis be peaceful for us. 
O gem! With your influence, this man has come to this world with home. It has acquired a group of living human beings. He has become the father of sons and has found great fortune among men. (2)
In heaven and earth, agni is hosted. Agni illuminates everyone. We use agni for yajna. Just as a horse wanders everywhere, agni moves everywhere. (75)
O Brahmaspati! You are Ganapati in the god-group, the unparalleled poet among the poets, the supreme among the admirable people and the masters of mantras. We call upon you. You sit in the yajnashala, listening to our praises and protect us. 
O Indra who drinks Balvan and Som! You give us food and strength with a serious and wide heart. Be prepared to protect us day and night without violence against us. 
These girls who wish for a husband should take a fast of initiation while going from the father's house to the husband's house. This is the best sermon. (52)
O great man! When you wake up, wake up to attain a hundred years of life. You go home to become a housewife. May Savita Dev give you a long life. (75)
We call upon those pitar (ancestors) who are as bright as the agni, those who are righteous. We call for the acclaimed and the dynamic pitar in Sompan. They are well invoked by our Brahmin ancestors. Let us become the masters of wealth. (61)
The power by which Indra keeps the dyava-prithvivi wrapped like leather is evident. 
Instead of higher heights, do not come out of the earth with extreme degradation and hidden in the earth, he should sleep injured by this thunderbolt. (2)
Vishnu is associated with Indra Dev. He is the friend of Indra Dev. Vishnu sees all the deeds and creates the Brahmins. (33)
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You never treason each other. The Yagya Mandap is built with the help of thousands of pillars. That Yajna Mandap is stable and strong. Please both of you to sit in that Yagya Mandap. 
Sometimes the dice become stingers like curbs, tearing the heart to pieces and burning like hot substances. For the gambler who wins the dice, the son seems to be as happy as birth and wrapped with honey, but the loser takes the life of the loser. 
The bright charioted ushas complete the first part of the prahadayagya in the morning, with the help of red horses, make a wide walk, adorn strangely and end the darkness of the night. 
The host is the one who defeats the enemies. May all the five directions come to fruition for the host. You are the creator of Brahma, Savita and truth. You are Varun, Satyavan and Energetic. You are Indra and Vishal, Ojasvi and Rudra. You are good deeds. You are very good. You are a bajr. Please provide money to your host. (28)
O glorious agni! Your path of movement is black, it moves ahead of you, and your movement is the best of the brightest of the models. Hosts do not find you and keep the causal wood in your genesis. After this you are soon born and become messengers of the host 
O Lord of wealth Indra! You either go to your abode from this yajna or come to this yajna. O filler Indra! Both places have your purpose. Sit on your huge chariot to get there and separate the horses from the chariot to stay here. 
O wise and mighty Indra! We ask you for the same wealth as ancestral property. Your house is located in space as vastly as your glory. May your happiness get us. 
O Lord of the riches, O Ashwinikumaro! It calls you to drink the sage Madhur Somras named Krishna. 
O Indra! Your desires and your friends who praise you again and again serve you with stota praises. 
Indra is a man of mercy, anger and a great power to enter the battlefield from the front of the Army of Shanru. They control the army of enemies. No one is able to drive them out of the war zone. They are going to defeat the enemy armies. No one is capable of fighting them. Protect our army in these types of Indra wars. (7)
I call the sound of the wind, the poet, the roaring like the cloud, the bali and the agni that dwells in the sea. 
Those who wish to speak with the effect of the above sharpness, speak constantly like a bird. They are requested not to talk nonsense about yajna. (23)
The highly intoxicating mons are purely located in characters called Chamu. Like a bull holding semen in a cow, Som, who pours juice in the tamu pots and the lord of the yagnakarma, is praised. 
Indra, who is desirous of giving wealth by gods and human beings, is attracted by praises or yagnas for dhandaan. The means of earning money in sangram attract horses Indra. Those who take shelter in yajna or kill the enemy attract Indra. 
O Indra! May you receive praise that is pervaded by the brightness that goes on with you and containing the words of the psalms. 
The fire on the altary earth arose, the sun rose, and the great Usha began to destroy the darkness, pleasing the creatures with her brightness. O aschinikumaro! Prepare your chariot to come to the yagnapradesh. Savita Devta should put the whole world in his work. 
The word of the flowing of the Indus river rises from the earth and covers the sky. The Indus flows with great velocity and luminous waves. At the time when the Indus river flows like a bull, it looks as if it is raining from the sky. 
I gave the earth for Arya Manu. I give rain water to the people who give the greetings. I had brought water to all the places while doing the word kalkal. The gods follow my own resolve. 
O you who are hostile, Indra! We have added both your horses to the chariot by mantra, so climb on the chariot. The word of stone used to code som turn your mind towards us. 
O son of Kunti, the contact between the senses and the sense objects gives rise to fleeting perceptions of happiness and distress. These are non-permanent, and come and go like the winter and summer seasons. O descendent of Bharat, one must learn to tolerate them without being disturbed.
O Agni of Indra and opulence invoked by many! You give us complete food and life. Just as the tied horse is given grass, in the same way, we should get full life by giving you a week. (6)
 O Mon! You are very powerful. By drinking you, Indra becomes powerful and powerful. The wise are also happy to drink you. With your influence, Indra soon subdues the wealth of enemies like a horse in wars. 
O Indra, the best of the workmen, the one who rains and kills enemies quickly! Your defense work is excellent. We call him. You protect us with ubiquitous maruts. 
O Mon! You are thousands of sharp, holy and wealthy. Give us divinity. 
The creator of the act is a sinner. Bhava and Sharva should transmit electricity for the destruction of him, which is the weapon of the gods. (23)
O glorious agni! When you are ignited, your enlarged and vivid rays rise. 
O Vishnu! I'll tell you your name containing rays. Is it fair for you not to accept this name? You took another form in the war. Don't hide your look from us. 
O you have a calm mind Indra! Make your wide, efficient, and more giving hands in front of us to give us food. Just as the gwala moves a group of animals, so do you steer us in war. 
That's what people who know the duty have said to me at night and in the day. The knowledge that comes from my heart also gives the same advice. Those whom Shunashep called by the sun, king Varuna, should free us from bondage. 
Friends illuminate the last parts of heaven and earth by their brightness and complete both the dyava-prithvi with their importance. 
O Varuna! Seventy-seven of your best, middle and lower classes are bound everywhere for the control of sinners. They are located in violence against sinners, they should cut off our enemy who makes false speeches and leave the one who is truthful. (6)
The hosts, who were devoid of the wisdom of work and inaction, performed yajna through the dog and also performed yagya several times through the organs of the cow. Whoever knows this sacrificial God with his heart, tell us that Guru. Tell him the nature of God here and at the same time. (5)
O Indra! Just as the water group flows towards the lower place, so do the praises of the hymns, the somrup stotras, the huge wealth and the vast somras go to you. O thunderbolt Indra! You mix gorus and water well in somras. 
You are the one who destroys Vishnu's glory and enemies. You are situated in the yajna and the glory of Brahman. I display might in Brahman and remove it from Brahman. Let the one we hate or who hates us be destroyed. Give up life from him. (31)
O aschinikumaro! You have the same acclaimed and many-called chariot. The three-wheeled chariot goes to the yagna. We call the revolving chariot around it and the benefactory chariot for the yagna every morning with beautiful praises. 
The year divides the horse in the form of Tashta (Sun). He divides it into two parts (Uttarayan and Dakshinayan). Divides the two parts into seasons (six). For the health of body parts, according to the season, the sacrifice of substances is offered in the agni. (42)
 Usha is the daughter of heaven and removes darkness. They illuminate everyone with their rays. They are the light of the eye. They are light in darkness. They are excellent women. 
May prajapalak, yajnasadak, happy and noble agni be dear to us. We also become his beloved with the help of Shobhan Agni. 
O agni! You should eliminate the defects arising from the subjects of the senses, the sins of the intellect, the diseases that exploit the body, and our enemies. May you overcome us from all sins and give us wealth containing sons, grandsons, etc. (5)
 O agni! You are immortal. We have considered you as our messenger for ages. You are a marriage.  You awaken both gods and human beings. You are the master of the world and wealth. We salute you and praise you. 
O serpent! Take away the power of seeing the eyes of enemies. O sun rays! You fall on the back of enemies. When the power of the arms is weak, when the enemies start running away, do not support them. (10)
Sun God is the ruler of space i.e. our master. Let him protect us. May he protect us in karma, prestige, in resolve, in the call of the Vedas, including this Vedokta. (9)
Two young women with different forms move around continuously and fill a warp with six pegs. One of them spreads the threads and the other keeps them handy i.e. wraps them up. They both do not rest or attain the end. This means that night and day are young women. Six seasons six pegs and time is the anang thread. (42)
The rays that spread are contained in the chariot of the chakra sun, extinguishing other jatis. These suns roam around accepting the greetings performed by the saptrishis. They make up the three seasoned years of summer, rain and autumn. All people are dependent on this period. O Rohit Dev, the perpetrator of such an angry god and the violent of a learned Brahmin! Make it weak while trembling and tie it with your ribs. (18)
Indra, who makes a quick donation, wants to indulge in the enjoyment by the horse unserced by him. O Indra, who gives power! Your importance is worthy of praise. Indra's donations are welfare-doers. 
This is the realist! You increase our wealth and expand it. O God who pleases like Soma! Let us be your friends, masters of horses and cows, and may we be without a little. Just as the Father protects the Son, so protect us. 
The sheep whose four legs and navel are placed on five poosas is called Panchapoop. Panchapoop i.e. the giver of sheep with five legs and white feet enjoys the fruit that does not end in the world of five equal ancestors of the earth etc. (4)
O Maruto! Just like your wealth, your donation is also praiseworthy. Indra help in your donation. In it is the happiness, the speed, the maturity of the fruit and the welfare of the farmers. Your gift is going to bear fruit immediately like the south of the giver and defeat everyone like your power. 
 O Indra! You penetrate the clouds. You remove the obstacles in the flow of rivers. We are happy to present you with havi. We wish that the bow of our enemies should be broken. 
O true, well-groomed and loving friend and Varuna! You look at the gods to please them in this way, just as the bull sees the flock of cows. 
The Psalms speak praises with seven verses for the father-like and praiseworthy Soma. The son of Som also speaks true praises. Both the vehicles carrying the havi are the gods of both god and man, try to complete the yajnakarma and nourish both. 
 The Vamana avatar of Vishnu measured the world with three legs. The whole world was contained in the measured place of their dusty feet. 
O God! Don't harm the chariot carrying this bride. We make this bride's path welfare at the door of the school. (63)
May divine water be the comforter for our yajna and be potable. Let water rain on us for purification, eradicate the diseases we cause and keep the unattainable diseases separate from us. 
O Indra! Put an end to our sins, so that we may kill uns praiseworthy people by your praises. A yajna without praise is not as dear to you as a yajna of praise. 
O God! You are powerful. Destroy the smoke with your power. Which hurts all of us. Destroy the sinners and demons that everyone wants to destroy. You are the most brilliant, powerful, complete and inviting gods among the gods. (8)
O agni! Just as we offer you with the word swaha by the word 'swaha' by the gift of gavya and ghee, so also protect us by a hundred cities made of iron with unlimited brightness. 
O strong friend and Varun! The land of the yajnasthala, which is very dear to you, has been well beautified. O truthful! Sit on it and praise our huge yajna. Just as cow's milk is consumed to gain physical strength, you accept the yagnas that take place everywhere to please the gods in the sky. 
The money of a debtless person is sufficient. We are masters of constant wealth. O agni! Our offspring are not born from others. Do not understand our path of the ignorant. 
The meaning that is in the mind is revealed by speech. What is said by speech outside remains in the mind of man. O herb! Accept the mind of a girl with all qualities. That is, by coating you, the mind of that girl becomes in my control. (4)
O Som who is dear to Indra and the doer of things! Kill all our enemies while you word. 
We attain death from the life of time, live in this world and get growth from the juice of barley, wheat etc. I associate this celibate with the sins of diseases and sorrows and the eternal life of separation from tuberculosis. (10)
Earth is cow and agni is its calf. Due to the calf of agni, the earth should give me the desired amount of force and food. May the earth give me a hundred years of age, subjects, confirmation and wealth. This is the best sacrifice. (2)
Hey Mon! Shower all the money through this purifying somdhara. Hey Mon! Go into the waters of those who believe in you. Aditya, who gives knowledge to all and has the same velocity as the wind, and Indra, who has many yagnas, also go to him in the vela of Som's purification. Hey Mon! Give me aditya and inder's son to praise. 
Sanjay said: O Dhritarasthra, having thus been addressed by Arjun, the conqueror of sleep, Shree Krishna then drew the magnificent chariot between the two armies.
O Ashwinikumaro! Stota has called you to protect by praise. You are shanruhanta, sinless and adorned. You shower happiness for us. 
Vaishvanar means the molars of agni, which is like a warhead, we hold the enemy in it, that is, keep it. By destroying that enemy, the samidha that is inserted in the agni, that divine samidha is capable of driving the enemy away. (43)
The agni with which the sages increased their power with the help of friendly agni, the gods destroyed the maya of the asuras, and the agni with which Indra defeated the panis, saved me from sin. (5)
Indra, who wears a khadga and wears an arrow, sends his brave followers in front of the enemies. Indra wins in this way over the enemies who come with the desire for war. Indra, who drinks soma, is the conqueror of groups of enemies, with muscle power, with fierce bows and destroyers of others with arrows killed on their bodies. O Hero! You get victory with the help of this type of Indra. (4)
You are the tying and endless of hundreds of bounds. (17)
O (named Apasya) ishtake! We consider water in a different place. Water is distinguished in medicines. We associate water in bhasma. We establish water in light. We establish water in its home sea. We establish water in the body. We associate water in decay. We establish water in your home. We establish water in your native place. We establish water in the city. We establish water in the path. We associate water with Gayatri verses. We associate water with trishtubh verses. We associate water with jagati verses. We associate water with anushtup verse. We associate water with line verses. (53)
Surya had climbed this bed to give happiness, on which the bed that the mind liked was laid. (30)
O man! If the cutting armament falls on your body and cuts it or the stone thrown by others is hurting you, make those parts of your body healthy in the same way as the carpenter unites the different parts of the chariot. (7)
O friend Vishnu! You show more valour. O dulok! You give the thunderbolt a place to go. You and I will both kill the vritra and lead the rivers to the sea. Rivers flow according to indra's command. 
O Indra! As before, even today your water-like work related to rivers exists. You made way for them to flow. The mountains sat down by your command like men sitting to eat. O Indra with shobhan karma! You have made the people firm. 
O Indra, the best of the leaders! This group of yagna leaders has made you oriented towards us by giving a havya in the yajnas. Be the welfare, friend and protector of those same leaders in war. 
To destroy the enemies, the sword man, the dwarf for entertainment, the hard-working person for the gate should be appointed. One should emulate the blind for dreams, the deaf for unrighteousness. Physicians for purity, nakshatra scientists for good knowledge, questioners for illiteracy, interpreters for sub-education and questioners for dignity should be appointed. (10)
Agni is the deva of the world of foolishness and heaven. Are earth protectors. They nourish the juice of agni water. (20)
In the middle of the sun and the sun, the nymphs are happy in the action that is enjoyed together. It is your birth place. You go near them. I bow to you with Gandharva and seasons. (34)
O fierce and swami Kamadeva! You should send your dream sin to the inferiority of the people, that is, the children, and the poverty to the one who tries to defeat and put us in disaster. (3)
O Indra! We host are compatible with you. We praise you enough. You protect us well. 
O Shur Indra! Listen to praises and become a part of mantras and grow from your body and give us food and home. May you always protect us through welfare means. 
O beautiful Surya's husband Ashchinikumaro! Water me with honey collected by bees, so that I may speak sweet voices, aiming at men, (2)
At the bottom of all is the lake named Udchanati, in which water resides. On top of it, there is a lake named Pilumati, in which nakshatras etc. live. At the top of the list is the third world named Pradyou, in which the ancestors reside. (48)
O Vachaspati! May our mind be happy. You reveal cows in our seminar and produce children in our wives. Pran stayed with us in a friendly manner. I hold you by age and fast. (19)
 O hosts! You gather. Indra has the ability to defeat enemies. He is the master of opulence. All of you worship them. 
O God of Water! Take away the peace of those who hate us or those we hate with the power to kidnap you. (2)
All these hymns have been made by targeting the son of mantras and the destructive fire of the enemies. We receive from these mantras, the publishers of meaning living beyond the senses, the addition of thousands of kinds of wealth to the grain, strength and long life. 
This river Saraswati flows with deadly water holding everyone like a city made of iron. Just as the Charioteer leaves everyone behind and goes ahead, so it moves forward by hindering all the water-filled rivers by its glory. 
We do not condemn The Pusha, but praise Him with suktas. We ask for money from the visible god. 
I hold your hand for good luck. May you live with my husband to old age. Bhaga, Aryama, Savita and all the gods have given you in my hand to walk the household. (50)
O Saraswati! You come sitting on the same chariot with your ancestors, satisfied with food in the form of ukth, weapons and self-style food. You give the host the food that can satisfy many people. (47)
This is the earth! You be great. Be you wide and be located in our house like a woman. You save us from enemies by your defense tools. You save us from your enemies by these actions. 
 Som is revered over all bhuvanas and rules the whole world. They are our suns. 
 O Indra! Just as rivers meet in the sea, so someras is found in you. There is no greater than you. 
I call upon the mighty Indra to help in the struggle for food. O Indra! You become our friend to increase our desired wealth. 
 O Mon! You are pure, succulent and spinach. Please fill all the dhams of the gods with your divine juice. 
The host that Indra, Varuna and Som progress to, that heroic man is not destroyed. 
The dead man had climbed three stairs located in heaven in order. He reached all three places of Dulok keeping this unresponsive cow in mind. You attain the sunland with the virtue without destruction earned by you. In this way, the person becomes like the sun. The fruit in the sun is complete on all sides. (40)
Oh my friend and Varun! Destroy all the sacrifices that are done by you beloved and the ungodly people who compete with you, those who do not speak gods and human hymns, who are yajnaless even when they are doing deeds, and those who are not with sons. 
Fire is visible and has a rukm-like aura. Fire adorns the earth with its aura. shine. are immortal. They are the best semen. He is adorned among both earth and heaven. (25)
O host! The sun has come upon your nation, so do not be afraid of war. Let the sky, earth and wealth-giving riches exploit the wishes for you. (5)
O beautiful Mon! This girl is your wife, because she has accepted you before, so she should be removed from the husband's house. This girl stayed in her father and brother's house for a long time. (2)
 O Indra! O wind! You are worthy of sompan. As the stream goes down, so does the stream of Somers for both of you. 
Pure and holy women put these white colored waters in batloi suitable for yajna. May those waters give us sons etc. children and animals like cows, buffaloes etc. The host who cooks Brahmaudan should go to the world of those who do virtue, that is, heaven. (17)
Hey Indra and Varun! The praise by which we call you and the sobering praise you accept, may you receive our beautiful praise. 
Trit's sin was kept in twelve places. In the first man, then in the three disasters, after this in the eight directions of sunrise- thus that sin is placed in twelve places. For this reason, if the receptive sin god has received you, then destroy it with the Devgan Mantra. (3)
May the one who increases the gods and is cleansed, give us children and all the wealth. 
O all-knowing Agni! You know all the pitars 
O Lord Indra! Give us your adequate, bizarre and asylum-taking money for charity. We are willing to enjoy that money every day. We will receive the best sons and grandsons and recite many praises in this yajna. 
O Indra! Cross us as meaning in the rashamis that are found as mothers to fulfill the desire of this host. May Pawan Dev provide food to it. O Indra! You bring your ancient praises into the wisdom of this. (5)
O Indra! Bring to us the wealth that you have given to us that all men know. 
The soul is unbreakable and incombustible; it can neither be dampened nor dried. It is everlasting, in all places, unalterable, immutable, and primordial.
O Indra! It is only by hoping for you that I hold a sickle in my hand. You cut the first day and complete my fist with cleaned barley. 
May we bring you the praises of the praises of the praises to us. Bring before us both your horses called Hari. 
O great, fierce and glorious Indra! People beg of you and you are praised. Come and drink our somras. 
Hey Ritvijo! Pronounce the best and adult hymn to the great and powerful Indra. Our ancestors went to see the footsteps of the cows stolen by the asuras named Angira Gotriya Rishi Pani and saved them with the help of Indra. 
Hey, Lord! The power by which you made the four parts of the chamas, the wisdom with which you made the cow, and the knowledge with which you made the horses called Hari of Indra, you have attained divinity through these deeds. 
The abdomen of Indra, who is quick, anti-virtuous and drinking somras, is full of the yajna of the host. 
I serve the name of Saraswati, a voice that is manifested and blessed with good fortune. Just as the son is under the control of the mother, so keep my mind in control and be compatible with our call. What I wish for is mine only, no one else should get it. May I always receive my wish. (2)
Let us win today. We get foods today. Today let us become sin-free. (1)
The Vedas deal with the three modes of material nature, O Arjun. Rise above the three modes to a state of pure spiritual consciousness. Freeing yourself from dualities, eternally fixed in truth, and without concern for material gain and safety, be situated in the self.
O Shanruhanta and asura-city-destroying agni! The son of sage Atharva, Dadyang, ignited you. 
O agni! Listen to our words. Happy people curse you and angry people curse you. We salute your body. (42)
O proud of the evil! The Creator and Creator of all saw You before creation. Manas, architecture etc. saw you before the birth of day and night. O dream! You are pervading this world. You hide your form from doctors. The implication is that the doctor cannot eliminate your influence. (2)
O Indra! The fruit-giver and the doer of somras inspires those performing the ritual and the workman and the food that provides you with the food you get for drinking. The two adhwaryu and the will-fulfilling stone blocks capable of squeezing the somras prepare the somras for you. 
O Indra! You drink sommers excessively. Force is generated from it. O Indra! With the force with which you destroy the asuras, we beseech you for the same force. (7)
Seeing the girls who had come with the desire to get married running away, the sage Parvavija stood in front of everyone. By the grace of Indra, he ran paralysed and looked blindly. Indra has done all this in the name of Somras. 
The fall from which Jupiter had tied the gem produced, dripping ghee, shaktishalini and khair tree wood to get strength, soma has given me importance, hearing power and good vision. O host! May this gem give you glory again and again and day, with the help of which you can destroy your enemies. (8)
O aschinikumaro! Your saintly sage adorns your most beloved, luster and wealth-carrying chariot with praises. O you who know the honey! You hear our call. 
O Cupid! Just as the devas had driven away the asuras and Indra had angered the demons by pushing them into utter darkness, in the same way, you drive my enemies away from this world. (18)
I call tvashta dev, born in the east, the guardian of the subjects and walking in front of the devas. The green pavaman is the lord and wish-breaker of the Som Devas. 
The bright voice that pleases the gods reveals the meaning of the unnoticed meaning, at the time when it is located in the yajna, all the four directions milk food and water for it. I don't know where the best money goes? 
O men! The cow which is the mother of rudras, the sister of the adityas, the daughter of vasus, the abode of milk, the place of crime and the inferior, do not kill that cow. That's what I told wise people. 
O Indra! You are aware of us and come well before us. Just as a virtuous person is not angry with the young wife, so do you not be angry with us. 
Brahmin Atri preached to the sun, rubbing stones together to squeeze the soma for Indra's sake. The hymns served the gods and with the force of their mantras installed the sun-like eye in space. Atri removed Swarbhanu's maya. 
Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Vayu and The Rainy, that is, the cloud, have taken the snake under my control. (16)
O woman! Give birth to a son. Let a son be born from that son's wife. In this way, you will also be the mother of the sons born in an uninterrupted way. You will also be the mother of those who have sons. (3)
The gods said, "O agni! We give you a lifeless age. O Jathaveda! You won't die of this age. O agni of glory born! Be glad to take the portion of the promise given by the host to the gods." 
O agni, the master of special light and wealth! You are all visible. You have been published after Usha in the past. You are still the protector of the cows, still located in the eastern part of the altar of the yagna and the benefactor of the yajnakars. 
This mantra! You are capable of performing mind, mind, patience, south, kshatriya and yagya. You are Aditi, head on both sides, east and west direction and friend. You want to put a bond (of love) in your feet. Indra is the president of the yagna. We want to please them. We request Pusha Dev to please protect the path of yajna. (19)
 Anni has ignited. As soon as Usha appears, the agni ignites. Divine prayers have begun. Ashwinikumar has gone to sit in the chariot. We request them to come to the yagna to drink someras. 
Just as agni shows his power by being born in the forest, so som is born in water and shows his strength. The soms inspire more rasa by making fierce words to the enemy like the warr. 
These twenty-one species of snakes are devoid of old age like gods and live in Naglok. The earthworms of these snakes are wrapped around them like a newborn. Through that earthworm of snakes, we cover the eyes of enemies who think others are harmed. (1)
 O Indra! You are the first donor. You are the giver of wealth and the master of truth. We connect with your light and wish you a strong and good child. 
O priests! You are divine. Please come to this yagna with a chariot shining like the sun. We have tried to prepare a wish for you. (73)
At the time when the intoxicating mons are squeezed, the sun releases them in the dolok. 
The money-giving and glistening stream of this mon knows how to protect the host.  Those who save the Psalms from sin and the Devmadkari Som do the motion. 
At the time of water raining, two types of frogs are happy and take long jumps by getting drenched in rain water. The brown frog mixes its tone with the green frogs. At that time one frog does grace over the other. 
Tigers, thieves, humans and wolves — these three should run away from this place. Just as the rivers flow in a mysterious form, so should tigers etc. also not be seen. Just as the god of the plants is hidden in the flora, so should the tiger etc. disappear. Let the enemies of tigers etc. drive them away. (1)
O wife of the deceased! You take care of your sons and home and get up from here. Why did you sleep next to this dead man? Come. You have behaved with this man in a manner befitting marriage and conception. You give up the idea of dying with the deceased. 
Go to the agni that calls the gods of praise that is dear to all people. Ida, the chief of the gods, should come forward and come to the agni worthy of the desire and worship to please them with the holy food. The most skilled agni in yajnakarma should perform yajna with our inspiration. 
O son of strength, Lord! You come near to the yajna, called by Our praises. Being a relative of Indra, you are happy with them and are brilliant. You come with Indra and drink sweet som and do ratnadan. 
O Vrithrahanta, the cloud-breaker, the one who inspires the waters, and who destroys the vimardaks and the rebellions of the shanrunagars, indra! Sit on the chariot in front of us to shake both horses. 
May I get this parnamani, which destroys enemies with the excess of my power and gives the essence and best results of all medicines. O God! This oz form makes me stunning with its sharpness. (1)
Indra, when the yajna begins in the ancient yajnashala, sees it from the east and completes it in such a way that he can get the fruit worth seeing. 
Whoever gives up urine facing the sun and touches the cow with his feet, I pierce the root of it. I never shadow over that. (56)
Hey Mon! When you want to give us money while you are clean, even many enemies who give us money cannot stop you. 
The sun continues to have the same change form as the different form of the substances. Usha, the mother of the rays, comes down from the sky knowing the sunrise. The rivers that break the banks flow with water. Heaven becomes as stable as a wooden pillar in the house. 
The God who is our Father, who is the father of all, who is the creator, the abode of all the Vedas, the knower of the bhuvanas of all the worlds, who bear the names of the gods, even though the disciples are the same, the creatures of all bhuvans (worlds) are finally found in their world. (27)
Those who behave like a friend and give success in the meeting are happy to have success. Because of fame, sin is removed. Food is obtained and strength is obtained. Thus, yash has many kinds of interests. 
O God! Let us want to live for a hundred years while doing karma. Apart from this, there is no other path to welfare. Deeds do not involve human beings. (2)
The armor that Prajapati, the sustainer of all beings, has made for the protection of human beings, animals, etc. and the armor that all directions, directions and vantar directions wear for protection, those armor should be available in greater numbers for those who want to fight. (2)
O you are pure, Mon! Give us water, heaven, cows, and sons and grandsons, and do good to our fields. Hey Mon! Expand the lights in space and let us see the sun forever. 
 O Usha! You have been waking us up before. You still wake us up. You wake us up to get money. You are illuminated and produced by the best method 
Indra, who had broken ninety-nine cities with his muscle power for the maya of Shambar Asura, the same Indra killed Vritrasura. (2)
This sin and its fruit burns me from all sides and that is why sins are committed again and again. Like the sin inspired by men, the sin related to god's deeds also burns me. I praise the earth with a desire for fruit. May these two rescue me from sin. (7)
Jupiter, with the help of his friends who spoke similar words to the swans, opened the stone-like door of the cows stolen by the hawks and loosened the bonds of the ramming cows. Jupiter praised with a loud voice and sang knowing all. 
O deserters! Your walk will make the house collapse, fearing this, people have buried strong pillars in the houses. Your move is furious and shocking. Many of the peaks are shaken by your speed. 
O Indra! Your curb is big, so that you have wealth to the host who squeezes the somras. 
O Indra! The person whose soulmate you find satisfaction by drinking the som, he knows it on his own. Your worthy somras is placed in the pot. You come to him and drink it. 
O God of the universe! Be happy with us the sin we committed, knowing the cause of sin or not knowing it, and you should redeem us from that sin. (1)
The pitars called by us are the officers of Someras Paan. They should come when their lusts are kept and listen to our hymns in this yagna of ours, make biased promises to us and protect us. (45)
The spectacular agni pervades everywhere, protecting the beloved and best place of the earth.  The great agni protects the sky in the moving place of the sun. They protect the deserts in the sky and preserve the yagna to please the gods. 
For us, the night becomes a benefactor, when we come to sleep like birds living on the tree. 
O Shobhan Daanwale and the leader of the yagnakarma, AshwiniKumaro! You protected us at the time when the yagna was taking place in our house with a big ceremony, so we know that you have gotten to know our charity and adornment hymns. 
Hey Kamini! May your heart grieve for me. May your mouth also become dry, besides this, you may be extremely upset while desiring for me. You come close to me with a dry mouth. (2)
O God! You should never be pierced. You never perish. You are a patient hero, dutiful. O God! Please you and Agni to edit this yajna work. (68)
O Prajapati! The god named Upoh and the group of gods who increase wealth - both of them are your charioteers. May they bring many types of and decay-free wealth and prosperity closer to us. (7)
O Mon the best of the enemies! When the enemies challenge from all sides while fighting in the great war, then protect us. You are indra's best friend. You are great because of the particular item. 
The Som which is increased by the Devas by giving one art every day in the Shukla Paksha and which is completely drunk on all days without attenuation, pitar etc. With that Soma, increase us who please Indra, Varuna, Jupiter and God Havi etc. protector of all beings. (6)
O Indra, who knows the strength of all beings, the great heroes, the mighty, the fast-paced, the enemy-losers, the fierce, the mighty, the mighty, the brave sons, the recipient of strength, and the receiving of the cows born of power! You climb the conquering chariot. 
O Indra! You have destroyed one hundred and fifty enemy armies. People call this work big, but for you it's small. 
The rays of the sun, which are severely vibrating, giving life to all and easily reaching everywhere, are spread in the three realms of the sky, etc. Who can tell where the sun is at this time? In which paradise do the sun's rays extend? 
O friends of equal knowledge and Varuna! Both of you fall the enemies and protect the truthful people in war. Both of you walk by the yellow chariot and get the squeezed someras and witness the deeds of human beings. You both save us from sin. (2)
O Banaspati! You provide medicines for us and the gods. Fire is soothing. May they please research our sacrifice. (21)
He calls and feeds all the creatures of the earth, in that hospitality, it is as if the world forms are called. (7)
May the wind give us maturity. Give the air a agni with a black neck. Banyan tree should provide chamas. Shalmali tree (semal) should provide growth. It is powerful, omnipresent, enjoyable. The agni nurtures the creatures in the four stages and please come to the agni. Please protect us without black i.e. white horse. Hello to the agni. (13)
 O Mon! You are spread out. You are great and like the sea. You are the father 
Kumbh raised the big intestine. The genitals originated from Som established in Kumbh. Shatdhari Som milked the original source. The kumbhi presented Swadha to the ancestors. (87)
O God of fire! Those deserts who are spread all over the sky along with the sun rays and who make the waters of the sea fickle with their power, come with them. 
O Shataudana Gau! May your thighs, knees, hips and hoofs always give curd, sweet milk and ghee to your donor. (23)
O agni! You make my mind worthy of well-being. 
We walk on the route on which vehicles can ply happily. On this path, there is no loss of heroes and money of other people is obtained. (8)
The water that our cows drink, that is what we are calling for. It is our duty to provide water that is flowing in the form of a river. 
O Indra, who has more wealth and leads to the journey of yajnakarma! We are dependents of a person like you. You are the master of horses named Hari. 
O relatives of the dead man! You leave the path of death i.e. the pitrayana. This way you will get a long life. O hosts who perform yajna! You should be pure and holy from the sorrow of birth by being blessed with wealth like children and cows etc. 
The sixth of this is Apan Yagya. (6)
O you very sweet, very wise, great, very bright and mesmerizing Mon! You become intoxicating to Indra. 
O sun! You rise before the deserts and human beings. You rise to see paradise. 
That womb could not completely hijack my knowledge. I defeated the sorrow of the womb by the sharp force of wisdom. The inspiring God of all destroyed the enemies of the womb. He took full form and removed the painful winds. 
Indra, near whom the intensely flavoured Someras travels, stops the obstacle rope of Indra wealth and gives unlimited wealth to the stota who performs the rites of Soma. (8)
Just as all human kings and rivers that break the banks go to the ocean, so do jupiter receive praises. They all know and see both the water and the coast as a sky-chilling bird and produce both, willing to rain. 
We worship thirty and three devgans with revati verses and shishir season. We establish Indra Dev with truth and strength. May Indra Dev be pleased to hold strength and life for us. (28)
The nation in which the brahmin's cooked cow suffers, it ends the glory of that nation and in it, brave men who water semen are not born. (4)
O Jataveda and omniscient agni! Sage Gautama praised you. We also praise you again and again with your virtuous mantras. 
This is the hymn! Just as other hymns speak to The Shobhandan Walas and Satyadhan Indra, so do you and we will also speak. 
We praise the five best herbs and crops that grow when the fruit ripens and are the kings of them. The darbha part praises a special medicine named barley and co-name. Let them free us from sin. (15)
O fire! You are famous as a kanta-armed and angel. You accept this hymn of ours. 
The bull was engaged in the work of weaponry. The mudgalani, who held up its rope, began to roar. The soldiers who followed the bull, who were attached to the non-stop chariot and running with the chariot, followed Mudgalani. 
Just as Maharishi Angiras gives refuge to Aryama Dev with Goghrit etc. to the husband wife at the time of marriage like Bhagdev, in the same way, Angiras Rishi should get this husband wife the refuge of Aryama Dev. Just as the sun collects its rays for the sake of light, so the sage Angiras should collect these husbands and wives. (2)
 O Mon! You're green. Your stream of juice is gratifying. She filters and cleans. You are an enemy destroyer and can go everywhere. 
O agni! You are the best part. We do hundreds, thousands of orbits of you. Please give us nutrition and get destroyed livestock and money. (8)
Along with Indra, the tarpanable and golden-haired horses named Hari should take Indra towards the grain kept in this yagna. 
O Stotta! Worship Indra in such a way that he considers us as his own. Indra is the son of truth and the protector of truth. (4)
O Indra! The surrounding walls of the well are grieving me in the same way that two saunters torment my husband in the middle. O century! Just as the rat bites the yarn, so the sorrows are eating me. O earth and sky! Know this thing of mine. 
The ritwijas are immersed in som water by giving them bright, giving food and mixed with cow's milk in such a way as a horse is bathed. 
O mon of pureness and krantakarma! Your speed is spread around. You're embellished with the seasons. 
 O priests! Someras is life-threatening for Indra. You present them a lot of somers. They will destroy winnable enemies. They will protect you. 
O Piro, O Sommers, the right to receive! You go to your world through pitrayanas and come back to our house to eat on amavasya day. May our homes be filled with shobhan sons and best heroes. (63)
Agni dev became the priest of the gods. Humans and sages ignited the agni. I call the great agni to get the money. They make me happy. 
O Indra! When we go to Somers, we call you by night and by day. You fulfill our wish. 
Indra, who wears thunderbolts, drinks somras, sings, human-benefactors and gives sons with many sons, listens to the praises of the hymns and is consumed by the stotras, Indra goes to these three sawans with the help of his horses. 
O Shur Indra! Let our great prayers not be fruitless. O thunderbolt Indra! By your grace, may we all enjoy desires and pleasures. 
Some people perform stern austerities that are not enjoined by the scriptures, but rather motivated by hypocrisy and egotism. Impelled by desire and attachment, they torment not only the elements of their body, but also I who dwell within them as the Supreme Soul. Know these senseless people to be of demoniacal resolves.
These simple-moving horses also seem to have horses with inseminable horses, beautiful and beautiful reins. 
End the great god sinner monster today. Let our bad quotes seem to this monster. Let our arrows look to this untrustworthy monster. Trapped in the trap of the monster pervading agne. 
O Indra! We want to make you your own. We worship you with friends. We belong to the dungeon. Our children also praise you. 
Usha follows everyone like a worthy housewife who does the housework, making the moving creatures old, driving and blowing the creatures with legs. 
 Hey friend! O Varuna! You are the protector of truth. You make the yajna a success. You also make us virtuous and protectors of truth. 
Ekashtaka, the owner of all, gave birth to indra with glory through penance. With the help of Indra, the devas defeated the enemies. Shachi Devi's husband, Indra, was the destroyer of bandits. (12)
The unbeatable Indra does not get angry in his mind towards anyone. Indra does not give place to condemnation in the mind before the condemnation. 
Those who are inclined to the fruitive activity described in the Vedas worship me through ritualistic sacrifices. Being purified from sin by drinking the Soma juice, which is the remnant of the yajñas, they seek to go to heaven. By virtue of their pious deeds, they go to the abode of Indra, the king of heaven, and enjoy the pleasures of the celestial gods.
May this man remember me and remember me with full affection for me. O God! Send Cupid towards this, that he may remember me and be sad because of my remembrance. (2)
Swami of the brave, ancient, fierce, powerful heroes, who has the power to defeat, speedy, humiliates the enemies, the conqueror of the army of enemies and knows the cows of others, O Indra! You are able to sit on your jaysheel rath to help us. (5)
I present havi roop food for Indra with the desire to get food which is mixed with ghee. Just as horses are added to the chariot, I give havi with ghee. Indra is the destroyer of enemies, the donor and the destroyer of the cities of asuras. (5)
O Dravinda, that is, the rich agni! Be happy and satisfied by consuming food in the yajna performed by Hota. O teacher! They want full sacrifice. So let them mon it. Willing of Mon they give the desired fruit to Dravinda. O Dravida! Do sompan with the seasons in the yajna of hota. 
O agni with glory! You get up and are happy to get ghee. Scratches are raised for you. 
Marudgans shake the enemies, moving as the wind, with beautiful faces like flames of agni, perform gallantry deeds like armored warriors, and adorning the words of the pitars 
The Sapta rishis and devas, who were absorbed in penance, had discussed the Brahmin's departure that the abducted woman of the Brahmin becomes fierce in heaven and spoils the kidnapper. (6)
O school! The creator has made you very tall. He has put strong knots in you, knowing those hard knots, I open them with the power of Indra. (3)
Sage Rebh had praised Indra well for drinking somras. When people praise the heavenly Protector Indra for increasing the havi, the fasting Indra meets him with shakti and rakshasadhan. 
You are the messenger and nectar form of the world. Those who get food from the agni yagya plough their shareshtha horses in the chariot. They reach the yajna at a fast pace with agni oz. (33)
O helper agni! Don't ask the ritelys to die when the agnis are ignited by them. O agni, the son of the agni! Let us not get even from your ill-conceived delusion. 
O jealous agni! You ignite as you increase your speed. O young and the most glorious agni! You become illuminated by uninterrupted fast. 
The angel-like praises of me with beautiful emotions go to Indra, pleading for Indra's favorable wisdom towards us. I do the praises that touch the minds of the listeners with a true heart. O Indra! You give us annual and strange money. 
 O agni! You are the strong base of yajna. You are ignited for the gods 
O agni! Give us hosts the strength that everyone wants to choose. The earth and the sky had eclipsed the hearingable agni like the great sun. 
O agni of divine virtue! Let us bring from Dyava-Prithvivi to the yajnakartas and provide welfare. O glorious agni! We get you. You protect us with many admirable defense tools. 
O you are very young, moving and the best agni! The person praising you receives your grace. O yajnaswami agni! Be the perfect day for him, riches and gems, and be illuminated before his house. 
The Psalms raise the powerful, the playful som in the water and who crosses the Dasapavitra made of sheep's hair by praises. The hymns praise the savans' mon. 
The Adityas took measures for the accomplishment of the immortal spirit and worked to be without fall and their Adina Mata Prithvi, along with those great ones, had gained special significance for holding the entire world. O God of agni! All this could be because you had devoured that yajna. 
O Pawman Mon! Destroy the fear that is near, far away, or in this place. 
O agni! Quickly resort to this yajna, let us together get the food you have given us. Indra, Vishnu and the Deserts should not forsake us and look at others. Oh, God! You always protect us by means of welfare. 
O the best agni among the very young and wealthy motivators! We will defeat the enemies to get food by getting you as helpers. 
Hey Ritvijo! Squeeze the somras for Yama and do the home of Havi. The angel-making and ornate yajna of agni goes to Yama. 
 O Indra! You are the sustainer of gentlemen. Just as agni comes to the yagyashala, so you come to us. You are the satpati. Just as the king comes home after defeating the enemies, so you come to us from space. We call upon you to help in war in the same way as sons call fathers for annadi. We call upon you to attain Annadi with food etc. 
Hey Mon! You have received the dasapavittra made of sheep's hair by stream to give us food while you are free. Listen to your word God. 
Killing a Brahmin's cow becomes dying. It is monstrous to violate it. Its half-cooked fodder containing cow dung is like an oath. (1)
O cow giving birth to twins! You become welfare workers for humans, cows and horses. You are happy in all respects in this country. (3)
O Indra! You have freed the rivers flowing below. You have destroyed the cloud. O Indra! You are born without enemies and sustain the world. Knowing you the best, we subdue you with praises. Destroy the strings of the bows of the enemies. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You have made the cows milch. You install pre-cooked milk in the trunks of cows. Oh, true! The carefully and well-intentioned host praises you with the same care that the thief hides in the forest trees. 
All worlds have been born from that God from whom no one was born before. He lives with the supreme male subjects. That supreme man holds three lights. Prajapati, who lives with the people, has sixteen arts. (5)
Before the season i.e. truth, the first six were born. Six sams carry six departments of the day. Six sams follow the earth. Earth, sky and six months are all related to heat. (16)
O Savita Dev! Please motivate the hosts to perform yajna. O agni! Please motivate the housewives (for the yagna). Please provide vegetation to som hosts. May Jupiter please give us speech. May Indra Dev give us jyeshtha (glory). May Rudra Dev be pleased to provide us with animals. May Mitra Dev please make us truthful. Please Varun Dev to make us dharma guardians. (39)
Thousands of kings of Veerahavya ruled on earth. Due to the abduction of the Brahmin's cow, he got defeat. (10)
 Som is free from bondage, worshipable and radiant. The Sun God leaves it to meet the five elements of water, air etc. 
O Aditi Dev! You are energetic as rasamaya, the abode of Vishnu. We see you again and again with eyes like lotus. You are the tongue of agni, the abode of the gods and the plant wide. O hosts! You call and invite such a god at Dhamdham. (30)
This disease called TB, which smells of Google, runs rapidly in all directions like a deer and a horse. Guggul originated either in the Indus country or originated in the sea. (2)
 O Indra! Let us also become the masters of as much wealth as you are. You are going to give money. There is a desire to give money to those who praise. Sinners do not want to give money. 
We praise Indra, who is the harbinger, the abrasive, the motivator, the great, the unspoken, the workable and the adorned vanja of many enemies. They are the ones who kill the Vrithra Asura, the givers of food, the rich and the givers of wealth. 
You are the milk of cows. You are the giver of supremacy (shine). You give us supremacy. You are the pupil of the eye of the tree. You are eye-giving. You give us an eye. (3)
I have come today to sit in a rich chariot to see Shobhankarma and the yajnarakshak. Drink the light and intoxicating Someras and wish for a beautiful son, bhritya, etc. 
O God! Our disease should be cured, we should get happiness and our subjects, animals etc. should not be diseased. The cause of our disease are sins. Let it be destroyed. May all sacrificial deeds and permanent movable forms of medicine destroy our diseases and sins. (3)
Indra, armed with a bright armament, goes to listen to the songs sung in the yajna and sits at many places by force. With the help of the seventh brother of the Adityas and the Maruts who are always together, it is not possible to do any work except Indra, who defeated the enemy. 
O Lord of wealth Indra! Do not trap us in this sin and in war as a result of sin, for no one can encroach upon your power. At present in space, you make a great sound and make a sound and verbalize the water of the river, so why doesn't the earth tremble with fear? 
The bright-willed Indra defeats the whole world by drinking the intoxicating juices of Som and defeats the whole world with his power. 
We call upon the full chariot of the maruts, in which sits the mother of the maruts holding the delightful waters. 
O men! All the assh, the cows, the villages and the chariots are in whose possession, he who created the sun and usha, and who inspires the water to flow, is indra. 
O Indra! There was no fear in your mind while killing the vritra. At that time you did not see any of the vratarahanta as an assistant. You were quickly crossing ninety-nine rivers like the fearless hawk bird. 
O agni! These praises have been spoken for you. You give money to us with horses and cows, so we praise you. O agni that covers everyone with radiance, produces from adornment and gives us money! When people receive the money you have given, you are praised. 
O Indra! You are like the eyes of the whole world. You are the eye of the eye-minded ones too. O water year indra! You walk by a rope by tying two horses in a chariot and give money. 
I complete the worship by uttering the best praise for Indra, who relieves sins and protects him well. O Indra! You accept my wish. May the wishes of the host be fulfilled by your grace. (3)
O Indra! You defeat the present beings on earth by karma. All the people together cannot grow even by your glory. You killed the vritra with your power. Enemies do not end you through war. 
O friends and Varuna, who are generous-handed and protect the sacrificial host from the sin of the host! You protect the host in the yajnabhoomi. Both of you, beautified and without anger, wear a building with property and a thousand pillars. 
Offering the results of all activities to God, the karm yogis attain everlasting peace. Whereas those who, being impelled by their desires, work with a selfish motive become entangled because they are attached to the fruits of their actions.
Oh God Ashwinikumaro! Let's be your stocha in front of you. O god of food! You hear our call and come with the means of defense. 
Let us get the yagna (fruit) that goes to the gods in heaven. Give us the desired money. Make humans get the fruit of the sacrifice received in space. Make human beings receive the fruits of sacrifice of fathers and earth. Get the desired money. May the joy of the yajna come from the world in which it has gone. (60)
Oh my god! You are in love with the seasons. You are in love with water. You are in love with the gods. They are in love with the age-giving gods. You are in love with indradi devas. We accept you for the pleasure of agni. For the happiness of Vaishnavar, Adhvayu Ashwini Kumar distinguishes you here. Along with the seasons, you are distinguished for the happiness of agni. With water, you are in love with the seasons. You are in love with the seasons, including the gods. May the deva of the gods bless you here. You are dear to the seasons. You are dear to water. You are dear to adityas. You are dear to life. You are in love with the seasons. You are in love with water. You are in love with Rudras. You are in love with the gods. We accept you for the welfare agni of the world. Adhwaryu Ashwini kumar please establish you here. (7)
 O Mon! Your juices are virenya, inspiring and divine. You get refined. 
Those situated in the mode of goodness rise upward; those in the mode of passion stay in the middle; and those in the mode of ignorance go downward.
 O agni! You grace both God and man. You are a devotee, an angel of gods, a marriager and a traveler in all three worlds. We praise you. We want happiness from you. You be a benefactor. 
After taking prana vayu, leaving its air, the sun's aura is present in the body of this animal group. He illuminates the great sun heaven and all the above worlds. (2)
O Lord Indra! You are strong and with thunderbolt-like arms. Descendants of Vasishtha Rishi are challenging you with mantras. Let Indra Dev take our heroes and god under his protection. May they always bless us. (54)
Maya, who married God, came to know the body created by the gods. Maya, which is going to control the whole world, has added color to this body. (17)
O Hundred and Indra! May the hymn please your mind and eyes and make it favorable to me. 
Bewildered by the material energy, such persons embrace demoniac and atheistic views. In that deluded state, their hopes for welfare are in vain, their fruitive actions are wasted, and their culture of knowledge is baffled.
O Indra who killed Vritra! You become furious and pierce the sites of my pelvis in this war. I am your beloved, that is why you fight with these enemies of mine. I am your follower and will be in your wisdom in the future as well. (9)
Praise the Somras who have been squeezed for the intoxicating Indra, let us praise him. Let us worship the eulogising Somras. 
The agni that hinders the enemies from the front and worshipable by the riches, whose havyas receive food and somras, they get the host wealth. 
 O Indra! We present to you someras, which praises you and makes you pure madmanta with pure samayana. We wish you to grow with pure words of praise. 
Some offer their wealth as sacrifice, while others offer severe austerities as sacrifice. Some practice the eight-fold path of yogic practices, and yet others study the scriptures and cultivate knowledge as sacrifice, while observing strict vows.
O Indra admired by many! You go on spreading the divine light on the earth. May your horses carry you again and again to our yajna. Those horses we give wealth to the wealthless stoes. 
The sons of the earth go up with their chariots, winds and mantras, chanting the divine words. 
O best donor Indra! The Mon given by me is delicious for you. After this, this Som is going to give happiness to your body. (3)
Indra had made the bright constellations powerful and strong. No one can bring down those stable constellations. 
Indra said, "The deserts of the same condition and the inhabitants of one place are such great splendors, which it is difficult for all people to know. They cleanse the earth. What do you think in your mind and where did you come from? Do the clouds who come and rain water worship power with the desire for wealth? 
The devotee who serves brahmaspati, the guardian of the host gods, receives food and wealth along with his relatives, sons and attendants. 
O Ashwinikumar! Just as the carpenter makes the old chariot new and makes it walkable, so you made the old Chyawan sage young and able to walk. You put Bhujyu, son of Tugrah, on the edge of the swim on top of the water. Those works of yours are particularly worth describing at the time of yajna. 
These Indras lifted the wheel of the Sun's chariot in their hands and became extremely forceful and threw it at the opponents. Indra came close to the enemies by making the most brilliant Arun form and took away their lives. Indra had run the chakra to remove the darkness. O revolutionary Indra! Just as you came from far away heaven to protect Ushna, so come to us soon with money as a means of all our happiness. Just as you bring all the money for other hosts, so do you bring it for us. 
O Ashwinikumaro! You go on the path leading to the mountain by the same jaisheel chariot and make the old cow milch again for the sake of the woman. You rescued a bird called Vartika, trapped in the wolf's mouth, from the influence of your deeds. 
Hey, Lord! We call upon your people who are extremely powerful protectors in the growing wealth, the struggle, and always the giver, the one with the ashwas and belonging to Indra. 
This wedding cloth given by Manu as well as the devas is the bride's cloth. It definitely destroys the demons living on the bed. (41)
O radiant Mon! You give us all the selectable wealth related to the land and the earth. 
We praise the agni that gives shelter to these people, who dwells among all, and produces our own glory. We, along with the devas and wives, praise indra, who aspires and all-rounders to grace the moon and human beings who have reunited the stable Aditi with the nisha of his glory. 
The shattankar who knows this eats food through Roop Annad. (18)
Those who infuse life in man, through those who commit violence against man, all beings breathe and leave in the form of question, who insults that god full of anger or commits violence of a learned Brahmin, trembling that Brahmaghati, O Rohit Dev! Weaken and put in bondage. (3)
O Ashwinikumaro! I wonder for your life and food gain. Like the mind, I call upon a chariot with a thousand flags to be called in the yagnas,fast-moving, with glory, with hundred riches, with quick and money-giving chariots. 
The water, air and clouds sleeping on the mount of Munjwan etc. on which Somlata is present have calmed the carnivorous agni. (10)
O son of strength and the children of Sudhanva, Hribhu! You come to this yajna. Don't get away from here. After Indra, who gave us the gemstone in the yajna, then go to you. 
O agni! Consume my samidha and sacrifice given in the yajna and listen to my praises. 
Gomrig for Prajapati and Vayu Dev, Wild Mesh for Varun Dev, Krishna Mesh for Yama, Markat for Manavraj, Red Deer for Singhraj, Cow for Rishabh have been made. Quail for hawk, worm for Nilang, Shishumar for sea and elephant for Himwan have been made. (30)
O Indra! Aim at my praise and add your worldwide horses named Hari to the front of the chariot. Oh, Shur! You are called by many hosts. Be happy to come to this yagna. 
The host adopted by Aditya grows with the money enjoyed by many, consisting of cows and horses and holding a child of adornment. 
O agni! Please establish the gods you have called for in your place. Please accept the sacrifices of all the sacrifices given in the yajna. We offer sacrifices to you. (19)
Medicines are flowers. Fruits are rich in stemming properties. Medicines give us pleasure and are as fast as horses. Please remove (destroy) obstacles (diseases) fast. (77)
In the kingdom of Yama, those who are fathers of the same value and the same mind, reach our swadha and namaskar in their world. May our yajna come to fruition for all gods. (45)
This is the earth! Just as a person seeking wealth prays to go from the sea to its midst, so we also praise you with unobtrusiveness to accomplish the favored work. They should make the rivers flowing by saying the word God. 
The holding of water protects the place of Aditya Som. The wonderful soma protects the births of the gods and becomes the masters of the loops and binds our enemy in the loops. The most virtuous people drink the juice of Madhur Som. 
The thick streams made by the honey of Vasukt Odan are mixed with ghee. Heaven is like a plate of nectar. Heaven stops these. Vasu sections are the protectors of the fund. Man should wish them at the age of sixty years. (41)
O Marudgana, son of a bride named Prishani! Though you are mortal, the one praising you will be immortal. 
Indra, who is moving in the clouds and skilled in walking, scatters great water in the earth with good wealth. There, phaseless and chariotless, that is, small rivers, gather and flow water like a ghrit without boats. 
O Indra! The faster the knife in the hand of the barber, the faster our intellects. O Indra, who delivers from sin! Give us money. Let your sings be easy for us. That's the money you give to The Stota. 
O Sun God! You travel in the east and west directions with annamaya swadha i.e. havis. You make day and night different with your radiance. O Sun God! This is your great glory, which you alone affect the whole world. (3)
O Indra! You freed the waters of the rivers on all sides blocked by the vrittar and created the pool of water. You have lowered the way of the rivers and brought their waters into the sea. 
O son of heaven, Ashwinikumaro! Both of you gods receive the famous splendor by your servants. When the great assh carries you in the chariot, the somras receives your body. 
The sky, earth, space, agni, sun, water, cloud and all the gods have given me the strength to walk. (53)
Kanva completed indra's yajna through his stoms i.e. groups of mantras. Jami calls him ordnance. (3)
With a variety of eyes, unlimited streams and amazing som drips the sweet juices they want for Indra. Hey Mon! You must conquer the field and the water for us, and come to dashapavittra, and widen our way as the rainers. 
O serpent! I destroy your eye power with my eye power and eliminate your poison through the sage. You attain death, don't live. May your poison have a bad effect on you. (4)
O you who are sociable, the strong and dynamic Maruto! You bring your medicine to us. 
Just as agni burns things, in the same way, the one who spoils my work due to anger and while angering like burning the agni, calm the jealousy used in the opposite man about me in such a way that the agni is calmed by pouring cold water. (1)
He who drinks you lives. You protect men, you are the sustainer and uplifter of human beings. (2)
This gem born of gods kept me in a better position than the enemies. The three worlds consume milk from this gem. May this gem put me in the best place. (31)
O agni with a special radiance! You, as knowers, bring the gods here with our serviceful and praiseworthy words. 
 O Marudagano! If the enemy force, competing with force, attacks us, then you surround that army with dense darkness, so that they can not even recognize each other and kill their own army. 
Ancient Angira Rishi is our father. Atharva and Bhrigu with new stoks are our fathers, they are all somras drinkers. Let us be kind to them. May they be pleased with us (58)
Indra revealed the hidden cows in the cave to the sages of the Angira tribe and removed them and wiped out the demons who abducted them. (2)
O agni! You are the othermost, the benefactor and the benefactor. O agni! You are a well-wisher. Protect us from violent and terrorists. You are eminent. Protect us. You are rich. Protect us. You are light. Protect us. You also illuminate heaven. You give us wealth and splendour along with friends. We pray for you with a good heart. (47)
Savita's chariot is of gold. They travel to all the realms, visiting all the realms, putting the gods and human beings in their respective commas, repeatedly roaming through the darkness-filled sky. 
At the time when the working people inspire this Som, at that time, the Pavman Som goes like a king to the people who disrupt the yajna. 
O Ritvij! Put the husk separated from the Brahmaudan in the Jatveda agni and mash the kambukas i.e. the phalkans away from the feet. I have heard this kambuk as a part of grihapati i.e. vastu devta. I know it to be part of the sin god Nirtriti. (29)
O Megh Dev! There are three bonds in heaven. Only three bonds are said to be in water. Only three bonds are reported to be in the sea. The same bond is reported in space. You are the ultimate father. We praise you as Varun. (15)
O Indra! You had given a young woman named Vrichaya to the old sage Vrichiya, who squeezed the som in the yagnas and wanted to praise you. O Indra who performs shobhan karma! You were born in the house of the king of Taurus as a virgo named Mena. All these stories of yours should be described while squeezing the somras. 
O Indra! You go before the leaders of the raining world and the great clouds and try to stay in space. Just as the king's armies are stationed in the battlefield, so are the horses with wide hooves of the maruts. 
O Ashwinikumaro, who defeated many enemies, who went to the house of the divinely virtuous and human-possessing host! We will call you in front of us to protect this yajnakarma. 
When Varuna craves rainy milk, he wets the earth, space and heaven. The mountains are surrounded by clouds and relax the powerful desert clouds. 
O meritorious, the agni born of shobhan manthan and set in the best place! Make our yajna hassle-free and worship the gods for the divine host. 
 May the air bring peace and comforting medicines to us. These medicines increase our life. 
When he walked towards the deity, he made the yajna annad and went on to become Ishan. (19)
When and in what way does Indra accept the friendship of human beings when the ushakaal begins? How does Indra express his friendship towards the hymns who offer shobhan havi and stotra to Indra? 
May our faith increase from yajna. May yajna increase our nectar. Yajna reduces our tuberculosis. May yajna increase our health. May yajna increase our ability to live. May yajna increase our age. There is a lack of our enemies from yajna. May yajna increase our abhaya. May yajna increase our happiness. May yajna increase our sleep. May yajna increase our evening work. May yajna increase our sudin. May yajna give us all the fruits. (6)
Indra's horses are always with him. Along with the chanting of mantras of the Ritwijas, they are added to the chariot. Indra, who holds a thunderbolt, is as bright as gold. (5)
 O God of sin! Make you greedy towards the minds of enemies. You also tighten the limbs of enemies. You shake the hearts of enemies with the flames of sorrow. You make the enemy unconscious by making it dark. 
The powder of money and medicines is the form of hospitality. Useful for great heroes. For three nights, the sub-member (going close) becomes dripping and sura. (14)
Being praised and ignited by us, the great agni illuminates the sky in the middle part of the north altar. Be the friends of all, praiseworthy and messengers of the agni gods born of avani and invite them for the yagna. 
O two gods (Juhu and Ayphrut)! You both be full of ghee. Both of you should be well-minded. Please have a good mind for us. Yajna B. Salutations to his God Subabhrit. Please also do our welfare. You are our presiding deity. Please be dignified and give us happiness. (19)
O fire! Please be pleased with the praise of the newly created Gayatri verse and give us wealth and children's food. 
Oh, horse! Don't you look at the smoke fire. The meat cooker does not break due to excessive fire heat. Accept the horse intended for the yagna, brought for the havan, ready to be offered in front of you and adorned with the prostitute. 
O Indra! Let the demons who have interrupted us by hostile to us and who have gathered together and surrounded us, drown in deep darkness. Let the night of light also become dark for them. 
Som goes in front of our shobhan praise, giving us happiness-giving money and food for us and our cows. 
 O Indra! You are rich. No one like you has happened in heaven or earth, nor will it be. We praise you for godhan and wealth. 
One should first know paradise. The biggest bird is the agni-like horse. The earth is going to swallow more forms than all. Night is going to swallow all forms. (54)
The stream of the som overlooking the hosts drips. By the Som yajna, the present deities on top of the jhuloka are violated. The somas shine with the word of the stota and just as the ocean surrounds the earth, so they permeate the three saavanas. 
 O hosts! Please see the kamo of Vishnu. He is the motivator of those deeds and a worthy friend of Indra. 
In the water group like the mother and in the trees, the present, beautiful, unserved by the creatures for fear of burning, strange, hidden in the cavity, rich and desireing desire for desire everywhere, was established by the Ritvijas. 
I have not been able to know that I am the whole world, because I am bound by the deeds of stupidity and ignorance and experience sorrows in the world with an extroverted mind. It is only when I first experience knowledge that I understand the meaning of the word. 
O Indra! You're brave. You give us destructive speed from the south direction, from the north direction to the west and from the east direction. (17)
If you are unable to even work for me in devotion, then try to renounce the fruits of your actions and be situated in the self.
Savita Dev is brilliant. They are well-wishers of all gods. We worship them to get good luck-enhancing intelligence. (14)
These are the best born! Self-published for everyone. You are self-published to the senses. You have been self-illuminated for the satisfaction of the minds of gods and human beings. You are eclipsed (in the urn) for the sun. You are taken (in the urn) for marichi. You are assumed (in upyam) for udan (deity). (6)
 O Mon! You are going to shower money like raining water from the clouds for self-knowledge, succulent and host. Please give us splendour. 
O Ashwinikumaro! For three days and three nights you come to the places of glistening with the help of horses. 
O Dhanaswami Indra! Be the armor to stop the disturbance of those who give greetings and destroy their ardent enemies. Let us receive the wealth of the enemy you have destroyed, give us a house that can hardly be destroyed. 
We, the moribund Brahmins, will make you great praises of the unmasked agni. 
The earth on which black and red meet day and night, the earth which is covered with rain, may that earth get us a favorite place with a beautiful mind instinct. (52)
We are calling Indra, the lord of the glorious, the lord of the real-movable and the one who is pleased with the yagnakamas, to protect us. Just as others are protecting us to increase our wealth, so protect us for our indestructible. 
Fire is light. Light is agni. We offer sacrifices for agni in the form of light. The sun is light. Light is the sun. We offer sacrifices to the sun in the form of light. Speech is agni. Fire is speech. They offer sacrifices for agni in the form of speech. Speech is the form of the sun. The sun is the form of speech. We offer sacrifices to the sun. Light is the sun form. Sun light is the form. We offer sacrifices to the sun. (9)
O Indra Dev! The gods find growth at the good altar. They also increase the gods. Please sit on the seat of Devgan Kush and offer havi. The host is equipped with the seat of Kush. The host performs yajna to attain opulence and to hold wealth. (12)
Our stothas praise the unspoken agni of the wise, the vidhata and the host. 
O protector seekers! Sing by aiming at the som who pleases the seekers of the gods and is lying idle for the drinking of the gods. 
Friends who know everything, Varuna, and Aryama, in accordance with their respective positions, join our yagna and protect the devotees from the violent. 
O very spectacular Indra! Give us your shelter, so that we can protect the host who performs the yajnakarma. You had protected the sage Kutsa in two ways. Similarly, protect us too. 
Indra is the leader of the Deva armies that conquered to destroy our enemies from the front. Jupiter should move in the south direction of these god armies. Yajna and Soma should go ahead of them and the Deserts should go to the middle part of these armies. (9)
Hey Mon! You give many human beings and to my host. O radiant Mon! You give hundreds and thousands of kinds of money. 
 O Desertion! You are excellent and bright. Indra is worthy of worship. We worship them. Indra is young, famous and hostile. 
